Citation:Lopez-Besora, J.; Pardal, C.;Isalgue, A.; Roig, O. Exploring theIntegration of a Novel PhotocatalyticAir Puriˆcation Faồade Component inBuildings.Buildings2024,14, 2481.https://doi.org/10.3390/buildings14082481Received: 12 July 2024Revised: 7 August 2024Accepted: 9 August 2024Published: 11 August 2024 Copyright:ẩ2024 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). ArticleExploring the Integration of a Novel Photocatalytic AirPuriˆcation Faồade Component in BuildingsJudit Lopez-Besora1,* , Cristina Pardal1, Antonio Isalgue2 and Oriol Roig11Department of Architectural Technology , Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya, 08028 Barcelona, Spain;cristina.pardal@upc.edu (C.P .); oriol.roig.mayoral@upc.edu (O.R.)2Department of Physics, Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya, 08034 Barcelona, Spain;antonio.isalgue@upc.edu*Correspondence: judit.lopez.besora@upc.edu; Tel.: +34-93-401-6423Abstract:Indoor air quality determines the comfort, health, and wellbeing of people in buildings.Windows are the optimal elements for providing natural ventilation and fresh air, but the outsidecontains suspended particles that can be harmful in high concentrations. This work presents anopenable and double-glazed faồade component with a cavity that includes a series of slats that ˆlterthe air and depurate it by means of a photocatalytic reaction (TiO2). This component integrates thefunctions of ventilation, solar protection, and air puriˆcation, which were analysed in the slat and thefaồade component to approve a preliminary design. To this end, it was applied to a speciˆc case, anon-residential building at a latitude 41‹N in a Mediterranean climate. The results show the optimaldimensions according to solar radiation and ventilation in this speciˆc case and the method usedto obtain them, along with the increase in the temperature of the incoming air with respect to theoutside (10‹C). Finally , the results obtained from a photocatalytic coating sample show that theNOx degradation can be up to 9%. All these results conˆrm the applicability of this component inbuildings and pave the way for further research.Keywords:building envelope; natural ventilation; air puriˆcation; faồade design; indoor air quality;slat; photocatalysis 1. IntroductionThe pandemic situation caused by the SARS-CoV-2 in 2020 brought the importance ofhealth in buildings to the forefront. In this line, the International Law of Human Rightsrecognises everyone’s right to adequate housing and states that Ẽhousing is not adequateif it does not guarantee physical safety or provide adequate space, as well as protectionagainst the cold, damp, heat, rain, wind, other threats to health and structural hazardsẺ [1].Indoor air quality (IAQ) is standardised by building regulations in different countries,which specify the rates of air ˜ow and design recommendations for ventilation. Othernon-governmental organisations go a step further and encourage stakeholders and users toset more ambitious goals by reaching higher standards of living and maximising buildingperformance criteria [2], especially in relation to the access to fresh air and daylight inbuildings [3]. The proliferation of environmentally controlled spaces with air-tight faồadeshas put aside openable windows and natural ventilation, while entailing certain drawbacksfor occupants’ wellbeing. Some studies show that poor ventilation leads to an increase inhumidity and pollutants indoors, which are related to most diseases with a respiratoryorigin [4]. Other studies state that natural ventilation has beneˆts for occupants’ health andcould contribute to avoiding some ’sick building syndrome’ (SBS) symptoms [5Ê7]. On theother hand, openable windows are associated with the sensation of good air quality andthermal control, along with a tangible connection to the outside. It returns personal controlof the indoor environment to users and increases occupants’ satisfaction [8]. Buildings2024,14, 2481. https://doi.org/10.3390/buildings14082481 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/buildings
Buildings2024,14, 2481 2 of 17 Nevertheless, the air coming from the outside may still contain pollutants that canbe harmful at high concentrations. According to the World Health Organization (WHO),4.2 million people die every year because of exposure to ˆne particulate matter [9]. Someof these substances are volatile organic compounds (VOCs), suspended particles (dust,pollen, spores), or chemical compounds (NOx, O3, CO, SO2). Suspended particles areclassiˆed according to their size: the most frequent are PM2.5(ˆne particulate matter) andPM10(coarse particulate matter), with 2.5—m and 10—m, respectively . The World HealthOrganization (WHO) establishes guideline values for concentrations of particulate matterin the air to reduce air pollution-related deaths and increase life expectancy [10]. In theEuropean Union (EU), 7% of all the reporting station-monitored concentrations were abovethe PM10annual limit value in 2017 [11]. Reducing the concentration of NO2and SO2inbuildings by following the WHO guideline values is an objective, since those chemicalsare responsible for asthma, bronchial symptoms, lung in˜ammation, and reduced lungfunction [10].Mechanical ventilation systems incorporate ˆltration and air-cleaning devices thatreduce the number of airborne pollutants such as pollens, moulds, spores, particles, ordust [12], although this method does not eliminate many chemical compounds. Userssometimes give negative feedback about these systems on account of the various associateddrawbacksỀnoise, thermal discomfort, and draughts from air inlets, to mention but afew [4]. The use of windows for natural ventilation does not have these drawbacks andintroduces positive values in the perception of the building by its occupants [8,13,14].However, natural ventilation has some limitations related to outdoor temperatures [15].In temperate climates, it is possible to use natural ventilation most of the time, but thesystem must be well dimensioned and must guarantee a minimum air ˜ow inside withoutcausing thermal discomfort. The combination of appropriate wind speeds and temperaturerange deˆnes the best way of managing natural ventilation. Some architects and engineershave experience with natural ventilation in high-rise buildings, where double-skin faồadesare an optimal solution to moderate air velocity caused by high wind loads, while minimis-ing draughts indoors. These systems also have other beneˆts for indoor environmentalquality , such as noise, air quality , daylighting and access to solar radiation [16]. Double-skinfaồades have multiple solutions that can be classiˆed according to faồade geometry , cavityventilation, air˜ow concept, and cavity width [17,18]. Some of them also include devices inthe cavity to improve different aspects of environmental quality: photovoltaic slats [19,20],electrostatic deposition materials [21], plants [22], or shading devices, to name some. Thefaồade component presented in this document ˆts in this ˆeld.This work describes an experimental proof of concept of a multi-purpose faồadecomponent for ventilation that is a beneˆt for health and wellbeing in buildings [23]. Thecomponent is made up of two glazed surfaces and a cavity with slats that purify the aircoming from the outside. The novelty lies in the double cleaning capacity of the slats:both physical ˆltering of particles, and a photocatalytic puriˆcation for some chemicalcompounds. Thus, this element integrates both the main functions of a window and thebeneˆts of air puriˆcation to achieve a healthy internal environment. The feasibility ofthis component has been analysed at different levels to obtain a preliminary design. Thecontext is a non-residential building located in a Mediterranean climate at a latitude of41‹N. The work shows the results by exposing the validations needed to obtain a TRL-4(Technology Readiness Level) of the proof of concept, a small-scale prototype built in alaboratory environment.2. Component Description2.1. T echnological ContextThe tendency in the development of faồade construction systems has, for a long time,pointed towards maximising standardisation and prefabrication. Over time, the prefabrica-tion of faồades has evolved, at ˆrst being connected to one speciˆc material or industry , andthen developing to become mixed and transversal, enabling the manufacture of complex
Buildings2024,14, 2481 3 of 17 components. Workshop assembly facilitates both the incorporation of mechanical com-ponents, which require great precision to function correctly together, as well as complexassembly operations which are difˆcult to achieve on site.Integrated faồade systems are made possible both with the integration of differentmaterials and industries within a single construction system and by the modern possibilitiesof creating components with complex designs [24,25]. These systems integrate diversecomponents, assembled in the workshop. Their primary objective is to satisfy all thefunctional requirements of the faồade system in terms of providing maximum comfort forthe building’s users.Integrated design allows the faồade to be resolved by the theoretical deconstruction ofthe different components involved, reorganising them into a new multifunctional component.2.2. The PanelThe component consists of a panel containing slats which are of sufˆcient size to beˆxed directly to the ˜oor slabs. This is based on the technology of unitised panels; the struc-ture is resolved by means of an assembly of thermally broken extruded aluminium proˆles.Joints are sealed by means of preformed EPDM (ethylene propylene diene monomer), orsilicon seals forming a double waterproof layer with a drained cavity in between. Thestructure of the aluminium proˆles is enclosed over the majority of the faồade by means ofa double skin of glass, the external pane of which is glazed with tempered glass, while theinner pane could be a laminated safety glass or a sealed double-glazed unit with laminatedsafety glass on the inner face.The slats are ˆtted between the two skins of glass (Figure 1a). The slats occupy theentire horizontal section of the cavity , forcing the air to pass through the interior of eachslat. It is during the twisting circulation of the airỀas it passes through and ˜ows over thesurface of the slatsỀthat the air is puriˆed using physical ˆltration and photocatalysis.The faồade’s double skin is divided so that ventilation air can be managed in com-partmentalised zones (Figure 1b). One possible conˆguration would use vertical divisionsto allow air to enter the puriˆcation zone through a low-level opening, circulating pastthe purifying slats and then controlling the entry of this air into the interior space throughopenings in a side panel (Figure 1c). Many other conˆgurations would be possible, makingthis system useful for all kinds of faồade designs.
Buildings2024,14, 2481 4 of 17 Figure 1.(a) Cross section with the parts or the panel; (b) the panel with the air management zoneand the puriˆcation zone; (c) the aspect of the component from indoor.2.3. The SlatThere are two different proposals for the slat’s design: the slat which contains physicalˆlters, and the slat which ˆlters. Both satisfy the same functions but do so through differentmeans, adapting to the possibilities offered by each material and each manufacturingprocess involved.The slat which contains ˆlters is based on an extruded proˆle covered by a photocat-alytic material on the upper side of the external surface. The geometry of the slat frees
Buildings2024,14, 2481 5 of 17 up an internal cavity in which one or several physical ˆlters can be ˆtted according to therequirements of the project (Figure 2), as well as enabling the air which has already ˜owedthrough the physical ˆlter to then ˜ow back across the exterior upper surface with thephotocatalytic coating via the Coanda effect [26]. Figure 2.Cross section of the slat which contains ˆlters.The ˆltering slat is a printed ceramic fretwork prism also coated in a photocatalyticmaterial on the upper side (Figure 3). Printing clay permits obtaining a slat traversedby channels with a variable section. It goes from less than 1 mm on the backside, to thewidth needed to obtain the maximum sun-exposed surface on the sunny face, which isbetween 2 and 3 mm. The printed ceramic allows the slat design to be adapted to eachlocation and faồade orientation. The air crosses the prismatic monolith, depositing particlesin suspension during the circulation ˜ow by means of micro-channels on the rough-facedsides. The photocatalytic puriˆcation occurs when the air emerges through the upper faceof the prism and comes into contact with the titanium dioxide coating. On this upper face,the increase in the capillary section size enables a greater exposure to the solar radiationrequired for the photocatalytic process [27]. Figure 3.Printed ceramic with different fretwork patterns.The ceramic slats are not disposable ˆlters but are cleaned by vacuuming and, therefore,do not generate waste. Consequently , the double-skin panel needs to be openable from theinside to permit the cleaning of the slats [28].
Buildings2024,14, 2481 6 of 17 3. Component Functionality T estsThe adequacy of this element in the functioning of a natural ventilated buildinglies in its capacity to provide optimum performance in different aspects: ventilation, airpuriˆcation, solar protection, and thermal performance. Although the novelty of the systemlies in the air puriˆcation capacity of the slat, the other aspects are necessary to verify itsapplicability in buildings. To facilitate understanding, the text is structured so that eachsection contains the methodology used, the results, and the main ˆndings of the studiedaspect. These aspects were analysed using a theoretical faồade unit measuring 1 m wideby 2 m high in a non-residential building in a Mediterranean climate zone, at a latitude of41‹N.3.1. Building VentilationThe ˆrst veriˆcation was how to integrate this component in a building with naturalventilation. In detail, the component has a low-level opening that provides the air intakewith a lengthwise gap, the dimensions of which depend on the ventilation rate requiredindoors. Unlike conventional windows, which produce ventilation both in and out, thesystem works only in one direction, towards the interior. Once inside, the air crosses thespace and must be extracted elsewhere: through another faồade opening (cross ventilation)or towards a courtyard located inside the building. An example of a possible naturalventilation scheme at the building scale is shown in Figure 4. In this sketch, the air inlet isproduced through each faồade component, while the air outlet is produced on the oppositewall, connected to a ventilation shaft. The physical processes involved are not simplesince many parameters in˜uence air movement in buildings, especially in those which arenaturally ventilated: leakage distribution in the building envelope, internal and externaltemperatures, wind velocity , and wind direction, to name a few [29]. The analysis of thecomponent comprised the dimensional requirements to fulˆl ventilation rates accordingto regulations. Figure 4.Scheme of a possible building ventilation strategy using an atrium with a draught-enhancingchimney .International standards and local regulations establish ventilation rates in accordancewith different building categories (ISO 17772-1:2017 [30], ISO 17772-2:2018 [31], EN 16798-1:2019 [32], CEN/TR 16798-2:2019 [33], ASHRAE 62.1:2016 [34], ASHRAE 62.2:2016 [35]),which can be obtained by different methods [36]. The Spanish regulation, Reglamento delas Instalaciones Térmicas de los Ediˆcios (RITE) [37], uses similar methods. Regulatorystandards classify air ˜ow rates in categories according to the percentage of dissatisˆedoccupants (PD) in terms of IAQ. In the case of non-residential buildings, it applies CategoryII (ISO 17772, EN 16798, ASHRAE 62.1), or IDA2 (RITE) air ˜ow rates.
Buildings2024,14, 2481 7 of 17 The method used to calculate ventilation comes from the addition of the air ˜owrates needed to dilute emissions derived both from occupants qp(L/s´pers), and fromthe building component in non-residential zones qB(L/s´m2). In the ˆrst case, standardsestablish a difference according to occupants’ adaptation to odour from other people, withhigher rates for the non-adapted. In the case of ventilation rates due to the building andthe level of pollution produced indoors, a distinction is drawn between very low pollutingzones, low polluting, and non-low polluting zones. RITE provides air ˜ow rates dependingon the occupation and surface area, but the use of rates per square metre is only possiblefor spaces without permanent occupation (Table 1).T able 1.Air ˜ow rates in standards and building regulations in non-residential buildings. PD Standard Adaptation qpOccupation (L/pers) CAT.IIISO 17772,EN 16798 [30Ê32]Adapted 2.5Non-adapted 7ASHRAE 62.1 [34] Adapted2.5 (ofˆces), 3.8 (lecture halls, auditoria), 5(classrooms age +5) PD Standard Environment qBBuilding Component (L/s´pers) CAT.IIISO 17772,EN 16798 [30Ê32]V ery low polluting 0.35Low polluting 0.7Non-low polluting 1.4ASHRAE 62.1 [34] - 0.3 (ofˆces, auditoria), 0.6 (classrooms age +5) IDA StandardqsuSurface Unit (dm3/s´m2) qoOccupation (dm3/s´pers) IDA 2 RITE [37] 0.83 12.5 Based on Table 1 values, the total ventilation rate (qtot) in a theoretical non-residentialbuilding is expressed in Equation (1), which calculates the net contribution of the occupantswith the building component:qtot= N´qp+ A´qB(1)The value ascribed to occupants (qp) depends on the occupation ratio assigned. EN16,798 establishes 10 m2/pers for ofˆce buildings (N), which has been used here for cal-culations. The most restrictive ventilation rates are 7 L/s´pers in international standardsand 12.5 dm3/s´pers in the Spanish regulation, so the application of this ratio in an ofˆcebuilding would result in 0.7 L/s´m2and 1.25 L/s´m2, respectively . The contribution of ˜oorarea air ˜ow rates (qB), in Category II and a non-low polluting environment, is1.4 L/s´m2.When this value is added to the contribution of occupation, it results in qtot= 2.1 L/s´m2, themaximum value obtained in the worst conditions. This value is higher than the ventilationrate deˆned by the Spanish regulation, which does not include the building componentvalue. In relation to the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic situation, some publications have maderecommendations on ventilation rates to guarantee air changes in buildings. In Spain, aminimum air ˜ow from the exterior of 12.5 dm3/s´pers was recommended [38], which isthe same assigned to an IDA 2 category from RITE.The ventilation ratio of 2.1 L/s´m2, along with an acceptable air speed (va) of0.12 m/s(in order not to produce noise), results in an air cross section (Sv) of 0.0175 m2/m2accordingto Equation (2). This means that each square metre of internal ˜oor area needs 0.0175 m2ofair crossing area for ventilation, in the least optimal scenario.qtot= Sv´va(2)Considering the faồade unit deˆned at the beginning of this section (1 m wide), the gapneeded to fulˆl the ventilation requirements would be 1.75 cm high. The same calculationwas made with the less restrictive scenario, resulting in a 0.5 cm gap height. In the case ofthe RITE, the calculated height was 1 cm. The studied scenarios show that a faồade gap
Buildings2024,14, 2481 8 of 17 between 0.5 and 1.75 cm high and 1 m long would be enough to provide ventilation for onesquare metre of internal ˜oor area (Table 2).T able 2.Dimension of the gap needed to ventilate one square metre of internal ˜oor area in differentscenarios. Occupation Air Flow Building Component Air FlowOccupationT otal Air Flow Air SpeedDimension of the Gap qp(L/s´pers)qB(L/s´m2) (m2/pers) qtot(L/s´m2)va(m/s) Sv(cm) 7 1.4 10 2.1 0.12 1.75ˆ1002.5 0.35 10 0.6 0.12 0.5ˆ10012.5 - 10 1.25 0.12 1ˆ100 The maximum height for the air gap in a panel was limited to 12 cm as a designrequirement, sufˆcient to control noise, to guarantee the Coanda effect on the slats andto prevent foreign objects from entering the cavity . By proportion, a 12ˆ100 cm gapwould provide adequate ventilation for 6.85 m2of internal ˜oor area, with a 2.1 L/s´m2required air ˜ow. According to this, each faồade component would provide ventilationto almost 7 square metres of internal ˜oor area, comparable to the common area of anindividual ofˆce. For spaces with lower ventilation requirements, the component couldprovide ventilation to even larger areas.3.2. Air PuriˆcationThe next step was to determine the puriˆcation capacity of the slat, with speciˆcattention paid to the photocatalytic activity of the coating. Usually , ventilation systemsintegrate ˆltering devices for particles, but none of them eliminate chemical compoundsfrom the air. As explained in the introduction section, NO2is one of the most commonair pollutants indoors that can cause adverse effects on building occupants [39]. Themajor sources of this gas are internal combustion engines [40], and they are found in highconcentrations in cities with heavy trafˆc. The signiˆcance of NO2is highlighted by publicadministrations, which provide records of this gas’s concentrations in maps and graphs withcontinuous data [41,42]. The multi-purpose faồade component proposes two air-cleaningstrategies: ˆltering for physical particles, and photocatalysis for chemical compounds.The physical ˆltering is applied to PM2.5and PM10particles, while air depuration appliesto NOx.The effectiveness of ˆlters is measured with the Minimum Efˆciency Reporting Value(MERV) parameter. The scale ranges from 1 to 16, depending on the minimum particlesize ˆltered. For PM2.5and PM10particles, it applies a 5Ê8 value or higher. ISO 16890 [43]characterises the ˆltration performance and divides ˆlters into groups according to theretention of particles from 0.30 to 10—m in size. For PM2.5and PM10particles, ˆlters mustachieve a minimum efˆciency of 50% in ISO ePM2.5and ePM10groups. Filtering devices aredifˆcult to include in openable windows because of their thickness and appearance, whichpartially block the vision to the outside. Thus, they are limited to close-woven materialsthat reduce the intake of all but the smallest particles [44]. The use of a slat allows theintegration of the most effective ˆlters, since they are located inside the element, out ofsight. The design offers the possibility of integrating a series of ˆlters with different degreesof effectiveness.On the other hand, the elimination of chemical compounds is produced by photo-catalysis, an oxidation chemical reaction in which the polluting elements are disintegrated.With this purpose, a photocatalyst element is applied as a coating on the exposed surfaceof the slat, which reacts with an oxidant compound, the oxygen (O2) present in the airand activated by UV solar radiation [45]. Titanium dioxide (TiO2) is the most commonphotocatalyst element used in this reaction. The design of the slat guarantees the contact ofthe air ˜ow with the photocatalytic coating due to the Coanda effect, while the position ofthe element in relation to solar radiation ensures the activation of the chemical process [46].
Buildings2024,14, 2481 9 of 17 There are several photocatalytic coatings on the market which can be applied using differ-ent processes. The most common ones are cold applications by immersion or spray andhigh-speed thermal projection. The coating is then applied to any support material, whichcan be any material used in solar protection slats, such as aluminium or ceramics.The effectiveness of the photocatalytic capacity of three photocatalytic coatings wastested on ˆve base materials. The support materials were extruded aluminium (AX),printed ceramic with one-side perforation (CI-1C), printed ceramic with perforation onboth sides (CI-2C), extruded ceramic (CX), and foamed aluminium with a medium porosity(AE-M). The coating was applied to each 10ˆ5ˆ0.14 cm sample with PuretiTMpaint(PUR), ProCleanTMpaint (CLE) and thermal projection (PVC). The combination of supportmaterials and coatings are shown in Table 3, each with a number and a code.T able 3.Samples used for testing with codes, material of support and coating applied. Num. Code Support Material Coating 1 AX-PUR Extruded aluminiumPuretiTMpaint2 AX-PVC Extruded aluminium High-speed thermal projection3 AX-CLE Extruded aluminiumProCleanTMpaint4 CI-1C-PUR Printed ceramic (one-side perforation)PuretiTMpaint5 CI-1C-CLE Printed ceramic (one-side perforation)ProCleanTMpaint6 CI-2C-PUR Printed ceramic (perforation on both sides)PuretiTMpaint7 CI-1C-PVC Printed ceramic (one-side perforation) High-speed thermal projection8 CX-PUR Extruded ceramicPuretiTMpaint9 CX-CLE Extruded ceramicProCleanTMpaint10 CX-PVC Extruded ceramic High-speed thermal projection11 AE-M-PUR Foamed aluminium, medium porosityPuretiTMpaint The oxidation of Nitric Oxide (NO) was tested to determine the photocatalytic activityof each combined sample. The test was conducted in the Analysis and Photocatalytic Treat-ment of Pollutants in Air Unit (FOTOAir) of the Energy , Environmental and TechnologicalResearch Center (CIEMAT). The experiment was conducted on 10ˆ5ˆ0,14 cm samples,following the ISO 22197-1 [47] indications and operation conditions for each phase of thestudy of photocatalytic activity (Table 4). The samples were washed with water and weredried for 24 h, before introducing them into the reactor. They were then pre-treated withUV-A radiation, according to the criteria established in the ISO 22197-1 [47] standard. Theresults obtained show data about NOx (NO + NO2), which correspond to the NO removedand NO2formed during the experiment, expressed in percentage (%) and micromole (—mol)(Table 5).T able 4.Description of the test procedure according to ISO 22197-1. Operation Conditions Total ˜ow: 3000 mL/min[NO] = 1000 ppbR.H. = 50%Irradiance UV-A: 10 W/m2Irradiation time with UV-A light: 300 minDistance between the test tube and reactor window: 0.5 cm Phases of the Study Phase1: bypass air for 30 minPhase 2: air + NO in bypass mode for 30 minPhase 3: air + NO in reactor mode for 30 minPhase 4: air + NO in reactor mode + UV-A for 300 minPhase 5: cleaning with air for 30 min
Buildings2024,14, 2481 10 of 17 T able 5.Results of the laboratory tests in each sample: conversion percentage of NO and NOx(XNO-XNOx), quantity of NO and NOx degradation in—mol (NOe-NOxe), quantity of NO2formedin—mol (NO2). Num. Code XNO (%) XNOX(%) NOe(—mol) NOxe(—mol) NO2(—mol) 1 AX-PUR 3 1 1.36 0.37 1.262 AX-PVC 5 3 1.97 1.05 0.923 AX-CLE 9 5 3.46 2.15 1.314 CI-1C-PUR - - - - -5 CI-1C-CLE 3 2 1.2 0.46 0.746 CI-2C-PUR 3 2 1.45 1.10 0.507 CI-1C-PVC 5 3 2.13 1.10 1.008 CX-PUR - - - - -9 CX-CLE 2 1 0.90 0.68 -10 CX-PVC 2 2 0.90 0.70 -11 AE-M-PUR 2 2 0.8 0.67 0.10 The results show that the best performance was obtained with sample 3, extrudedaluminium with a ProCleanỄpaint coating. The percentages of chemical conversion ofNO and NOx obtained were 9% and 5%, respectively . Figure 5 shows the conversion rateduring the test. In Phase 4, under UV-A radiation, there is a noticeable drop in the NOand NOx components, together with an increase in the amount of NO2. The other samplesshowed less activity , with percentages ranging from 2 to 5% of NO degradation, and from 1to 3% conversion of NOx. The results on the printed ceramics were lower than 5%, thoughthe air ˜ow in a real environment would favour absorption and diffusion and, therefore,could imply an improvement in the photocatalytic process. Figure 5.Conversion of NO and NOx obtained for sample AX-CLE, based on [47].The results obtained show the effectiveness of the photocatalytic reaction on thesamples coated outside the laboratory . The application of the TiO2to the samples wasproduced without strict control of the thickness and the amount of coating deposited, whichcould present slight variations. Considering this, a thicker application of photocatalyticcoating could yield better results in terms of NO degradation. Apart from this, the resultsshow the reaction on a single surface corresponding to one slat. If the effect was cumulative,a combination of ˆve slats in the faồade unit would suppose a higher NO degradation,
Buildings2024,14, 2481 11 of 17 provided that the conditions were optimal. This procedure would require a ˜uid-dynamicmodel to test the precise effect in the whole component.3.3. Solar ProtectionThe slats contained in the faồade component manage solar radiation like a conventionallouver in a Mediterranean climate. But at the same time, the photocatalytic coating requiresaccess to solar radiation to activate the chemical reaction, which will be most effective withhigh irradiation. Thus, the component has a twofold function: protecting the interior ofthe building from overheating and guaranteeing solar access to the upper part of the slats.Other aesthetic requirements of the component are keeping the appearance of a louver,with a reasonable distribution of slats, and allowing a view of the outside. The optimaldistribution and geometrical design of a faồade component was determined with theserequirements in mind.The calculation settings were deˆned according to the dimensional conditions of thefaồade component. The width of the air chamber was ˆxed at 20 cm, with a length of 100 cm.The total component’s vertical dimension is 200 cm, which accommodates a distribution ofslats 6 cm thick. The geographical position of the faồade component was ˆxed at latitude41‹N. With the aim of receiving maximum solar radiation on the coating, the componentwas oriented towards the south, the optimal orientation in the northern hemisphere. Thegeometrical analysis sought two parameters, the optimal spacing between slats, and theirangle of tilt.The geometric spacing between slats depends on the sun’s position during certainperiods of the year, and the depth of the slat (Figure 6a). The height of the sun on thesummer solstice ˆxes the maximum separation between slats which, at 41‹N latitude,results in 61.55 cm (from the lower side of one slat to the upper side of the next slat). At theopposite extreme, the minimum spacing that guarantees the upper surface of the slats areexposed to the sun all year is 9.3 cm, which corresponds to the position of the sun on thewinter solstice. The 61.55 cm spacing would imply only three slats per module and wastherefore discarded. Taking into consideration the separation deˆned by the sun’s positionin the equinox, the sun would reach inside the building three months before and after theday of the winter solstice (October-March), as shown in the stereographic solar diagram(Figure 6b). In this case, the spacing would be 22.6 cm. This separation creates a rhythm ofblocked and open vision in the ratio 1:3.7 (6 and 22.6 cm) that assimilates the appearance ofa louver module; with this spacing, the module could incorporate six slats arranged in a2 m high cavity . Figure 6.(a) Section with solar altitude on the winter solstice, summer solstice, and equinox atlatitude 41‹N; (b) solar obstruction of the slats in the stereographic solar diagram.Considering the climate data for Barcelona, a city located at 41‹N latitude with aMediterranean climate, it may be seen that the mean temperatures from June to Septemberare above 20Ê21‹C (Figure 7). This is the same period when the slats protect the building
Buildings2024,14, 2481 12 of 17 interior from direct solar radiation, and this shade helps to avoid overheating during thewarmest months. Apart from this, the annual number of hours of sun in the Mediterraneanclimate zone is high (in Barcelona it exceeds 2315), which guarantees optimal radiantconditions for activating the photocatalytic process. Figure 7.Temperatures at Barcelona airport: mean, mean maximum, and mean minimum (Source: Figure 8.Slats’ arrangement with 0‹, 10‹, 20‹, 30‹and 40‹inclination.
Buildings2024,14, 2481 13 of 17 3.4. Thermal BehaviourThe repercussions on indoor thermal comfort of this component depend on if it isopen, allowing ventilation, or closed. When closed, the heat exchanges between the insideand outside depend on the heat transfer coefˆcient, the U-value of the double-skin faồadeand the solar energy transmittance of the component. Both values can vary depending onthe characteristics of the glass panes that conˆgure both sides of the component. In the caseof the total solar energy transmittance, this value can change by a factor greater than ˆveaccording to some studies [48].However, the main concern in this case is the temperature of the incoming air aftersweeping over the surface of the slats. When the air crosses the double-glazed cavity , itstemperature is expected to increase because of the greenhouse effect and the heat transferbetween the slats and the air. This rise in the temperature of the air crossing the cavityand the surface temperature of the glass panes is difˆcult to determine [49]. One of thedifˆculties is that the absorptivity and emissivity of photocatalytic coatings is not availablein datasheets. In a previous experiment conducted with ceramic samples and a ProClean-Air photocatalytic coating, we could determine the long-wave emissivity of the coating. Itturned out to be 0.59 on average with an uncertainty of 0.13 [50].To determine the order of magnitude of the increase in temperature, we installeda mock-up of the university terrace in the summer of 2019 and carried out a series oftemperature measurements [50]. It was used as an experimental preliminary study of thecomponent thermal behaviour and to validate a further CFD simulation of the component.The mock-up was built with wooden and cardboard slats (manually painted with a pho-tocatalytic ProCleanTMpaint), wooden structure, and single glass on both sides, and wasoriented towards the south. The dimensions are shown in Figure 9. As proof of concept,some preliminary measurements were also taken using a MQ-2 gas sensor and an Arduinoboard connected to a computer. These measurements indicated a decrease of around 15%on the pollution products sensed by the MQ-2 in the air passing through the mock-up. Asfor the temperature measurements, they were taken in warm and cold periods and showedan average increase in air temperature of about 6Ê10‹C between the air on the lower inletand the air on the upper outlet [50]. Figure 9.Dimensions of the mock-up used for preliminary temperature measurements.
Buildings2024,14, 2481 14 of 17 In parallel, a rough calculation of the single component thermal balance was made todetermine the increase in temperature of the air in the cavity . The calculation considers thatat a given time, the gains for solar radiation and the losses caused by ventilation and heattransfer are equal, as the thermal mass is low. The parameters considered in heat losseswere the surface that encloses the cavity with its corresponding U-value (glass and wood),air ˜ow (Q), air density (‹) and air speciˆc heat (Ce). The parameters considered in heatgains were solar irradiation in a vertical plan on the 4th of October at 12:00 ST (middaynear Equinox) (Rv) at the latitude 41‹N, exposed glass surface (S), light transmission ofthe glass (t), and light absorption of the elements inside the cavity (¸) (Table 6). ApplyingEquation (3), the increase in the temperature of the air in the cavity resulted in almost 10‹C.This value is in concordance with what was measured in the mock-up.(Sg´Ug+ Sw´Uw)´DT + (Qa´êa´Cea)´DT = Rv´Sg´t´¸(3)T able 6.Parameters considered in Equation (3). S (m2)U(W/m2K)Q (m3/s)‹(kg/m3)Ce (W/‹C Kg) LossesGlass Sg= 1.50 Ug= 5Wood Sw= 0.8 Uw= 2.54Air Qa= 0.002‹a= 1.21 Cea= 1006 GainsS (m2)t¸Rv(W/m2)Glass Sg= 0.75 0.96 0.2Sol.rad. Rv= 600 The preheating of the air for ventilation provides the possibility of using the componentas a passive heating element, depending on the relation between local temperatures andthe temperature rise produced in the cavity . These results illustrate the possible increasein temperature in a similar situation and suppose a starting point for further analysis,since the mock-up was installed in an isolated open space. In this line, we conducteda simulation in different climates and concluded that the geographical areas where wecould take advantage of the full potential of ˆltering and passive preheating would bein temperate or cold areas with many hours of solar radiation [50]. These areas couldbe central Europe and low latitude areas at a high altitude above sea level. On the otherhand, the heat released to the interior through the ventilation air can be a problem in hot ortemperate climates with a warm season, making it necessary to conduct more simulationsto determine its suitability in these climates.4. ConclusionsThe analysis and tests carried out expound the potential of the multi-purpose faồadeelement as well as its suitability for integration in non-residential buildings. With respectto ventilation, the study shows the suitability of the component to fulˆl the requiredventilation rates in non-residential buildings. Thus, a 1-metre-long component with a12 cm height gap would be adequate to ventilate an ofˆce of 7 m2area, which means that a28 m2classroom or ofˆce would need four components. The faồade component is likely toprovide noise reduction from the outside as with any double-skin faồade or double window.Considering the overall ventilation of the building, a sufˆcient depressurisation to createthe suction will always be required, which can be obtained by natural means or using amechanical device or a hybrid system.The results on air cleaning obtained in the laboratory show that, in speciˆc samples,the reduction in air pollutants can reach 9% of NO and NOx degradation. Further studiesare needed to conˆrm an improvement when the coating is applied under manufacturingconditions. The component has two advantages with respect to other ventilation ˆlter-ing devices. First, the double cleaning devices are integrated within the faồade element.Therefore, the window itself contains the physical and photocatalytic cleaning system,
Buildings2024,14, 2481 15 of 17 which can be cleaned or replaced. Second, the presence of ˆlters in the component does notcompromise vision to the outside, unlike windows with woven materials that cover theentire opening surface.As the component is designed as a louver, it provides solar protection during certainperiods of the year, but without covering the upper surface of the slats that need solarradiation to activate the photocatalytic activity . The position and dimension of the slats ata 41‹N latitude show that a 22 cm spacing between them with a tilt angle of 20‹providethe best solution. This analysis can be extrapolated to other latitudes according to thecorresponding solar diagram and climate data, always seeking a compromise betweensolar protection and exposition.Location and climate also determine the thermal behaviour of this component con-cerning the conditions inside the building. It is essential to predict the temperature reachedby the air inside the cavity for future applications of the faồade component. This will deter-mine which climates, seasons, and times of day will be best for natural ventilation. Fromthe results obtained so far, it is expected that the component ˆts best in temperate climateswith mild temperatures in summer and the mid-season. Considering a rise in temperatureof about 10‹C relative to the outside air temperature, a location with temperatures of about12‹C during the day could take advantage of this preheated air, if there is sufˆcient solarirradiation. On the contrary , on hot days this preheating of the ventilation air is not desired.The system is not appropriate in hot climates.All these approaches show the potential of the faồade component for non-residentialbuildings. The solution suits polluted environments and buildings where the control ofthermal conditions by users is important; for example, hotel rooms, residences, schools orofˆces. Considering that today most faồades are conceived as barriers more than ˆlters, thisfaồade component provides a sensitive contact with the outside, which ˆts in the context ofCOVID-19 requirements. It has health and wellbeing beneˆts for building’s users, sincecontact with fresh air according to their needs contributes to improving the perceptionof the internal environment with clean air free of pollutants. Multi-purpose componentswithin the building fabric offer the opportunity of developing complex elements by relatingthe needs of users and the possibilities of technology . The multi-purpose faồade componentstudied is an example of this.5. PatentsA patent and a utility model were registered related to this project [51,52].Author Contributions:Conceptualisation, J.L.-B., C.P ., A.I. and O.R.; methodology , J.L.-B., C.P .,A.I. and O.R.; formal analysis, J.L.-B., C.P ., A.I. and O.R.; investigation, J.L.-B., C.P ., A.I. and O.R.;resources, J.L.-B., C.P ., A.I. and O.R.; data curation, J.L.-B., C.P ., A.I. and O.R.; writingỀoriginal draftpreparation, J.L.-B., C.P .; writingỀreview and editing, J.L.-B., C.P ., A.I. and O.R.; visualisation, J.L.-B.,C.P . and O.R.; supervision, J.L.-B., C.P ., A.I. and O.R.; project administration, J.L.-B., C.P .; fundingacquisition, J.L.-B., C.P . All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.Funding:This work was supported by the Agency for Management of University and ResearchGrants (AGAUR), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), under grant 2018-LLA V 00011,LLA VOR-IMPULSA program.Data Availability Statement:No new data were created or analyzed in this study . Data sharing isnot applicable to this article.Acknowledgments:We acknowledge the collaboration of the Analysis and Photocatalytic Treatmentof Pollutants in Air Unit (FOTOAir) in the Energy , Environmental and Technological Research Center(CIEMAT); the Thermal Spray Center from Universitat de Barcelona; Ariợo Douglass; ProCleanTMand PuretiTMpaints. We also acknowledge the mentoring of Hydro and Naturgy in this project.Con˜icts of Interest:The authors declare no con˜icts of interest. The funders had no role in the designof the study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; orin the decision to publish the results.
Buildings2024,14, 2481 16 of 17 References1.OHCHR.The Right to Adequate Housing; Fact Sheet No. 21/Rev . 1; Ofˆce of the United Nations High Commissioner for HumanRights: Geneva, Switzerland, 2014. Available online: https://unhabitat.org/sites/default/ˆles/download-manager-ˆles/Right%20to%20adequate%20housing.pdf (accessed on 28 October 2021).2.COAC.Espais Interiors Saludables; Col´legi Oˆcial d’Arquitectes de Catalunya: Barcelona, Spain, 2020. Available online: www.arquitectes.cat/ca/guia-espais-saludables (accessed on 28 October 2021).3.ILFI.Health & Happiness Petal Intent: Living Building Challenge; International Living Future Institute: Seattle, WA, USA, 2021.Available online: https://www.manula.com/manuals/living-future/living-building-challenge-4-1/1/en/topic/i10-intent-requirements (accessed on 28 October 2021).4.Ortiz, M.; Itard, L.; Bluyssen, P .M. Indoor environmental quality related risk factors with energy-efˆcient retroˆtting of housing:A literature review.Energy Build.2020,221, 110102. [CrossRef]5.Burge, S.; Hedge, A.; Wilson, S.; Bass, J.H.; Robertson, A. Sick building syndrome: A study of 4373 ofˆce workers.Ann. Occup.Hyg.1987,31, 493Ê504. [CrossRef] [PubMed]6.Rostron, J. Sick building syndrome: A review of causes, consequences and remedies.J. Retail Leis. Prop.2008,7, 291Ê303.[CrossRef]7.Jaakkola, J.J.K.; Miettinen, P . Type of V entilation System in Ofˆce Buildings and Sick Building Syndrome.Am. J. Epidemiol.1995,141, 755Ê765. [CrossRef] [PubMed]8.Luna-Navarro, A.; Loonen, R.; Juaristi, M.; Monge-Barrio, A.; Attia, S.; Overend, M. Occupant-Facade interaction: A review andclassiˆcation scheme.Build. Environ.2020,177, 106880. [CrossRef]9.WHO.Public Health and Environment; World Health Organisation: Geneva, Switzerland, 2021. Available online: https://www.who.int/data/gho/data/themes/public-health-and-environment (accessed on 28 October 2021).10.WHO.Ambient (Outdoor) Air Pollution; World Health Organisation: Geneva, Switzerland, 2021. Available online: https://www.who.int/en/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/ambient-(outdoor)-air-quality-and-health (accessed on 28 October 2021).11. EEA.Air Quality in Europe: 2019 Report; European Environment Agency: Copenhagen, Denmark, 2019. [CrossRef]12.CEN.Guideline for Using Indoor Environmental Input Parameters for the Design and Assessment of Energy Performance of Buildings;CEN TC 156. WG 19-N89. Draft 8 EN/TR 16798-2 WD; ComitéEuropéen de Normalisation: Brussels, Belgium, 2002.13.Brager, G.S.; Paliaga, G.; de Dear, R. Operable Windows, Personal Control, and Occupant Comfort.ASHRAE T rans.2004,110,17Ê35. Available online: https://escholarship.org/uc/item/4x57v1pf (accessed on 5 August 2024).14.Luo, M.; Cao, B.; Ji, W.; Ouyang, Q.; Lin, B.; Zhu, Y . The Underlying Linkage between Personal Control and Thermal Comfort:Psychological or Physical Effects?Energy Build.2016,111, 56Ê63. [CrossRef]15. Santamouris, M.; Wouters, P . (Eds.)Building Ventilation: The State of the Art; Earthscan: London, UK, 2006.16.GhaffarianHoseini, A.; Berardi, U.; Tookey , J.; Li, D.H.W.; Kariminia, S. Exploring the advantages and challenges of double-skinfac ˘ ades (DSFs).Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.2016,60, 1052Ê1065. [CrossRef]17.Pomponi, F.; Piroozfar, P .A.E.; Southall, R.; Ashton, P .; Farr, E.R.P . Energy performance of Double-Skin Faồades in temperateclimates: A systematic review and meta-analysis.Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.2016,54, 1525Ê1536. [CrossRef]18.Barbosa, S.; Ip, K. Perspectives of double skin faồades for naturally ventilated buildings: A review.Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.2014,40, 1019Ê1029. [CrossRef]19.Peng, J.; Curcija, D.C.; Lu, L.; Selkowitz, S.E.; Yang, H.; Zhang, W. Numerical investigation of the energy saving potential of asemi-transparent photovoltaic double-skin faồade in a cool-summer Mediterranean climate.Appl. Energy2016,165, 345Ê356.[CrossRef]20.Lee, C.-S.; Lee, H.; Choi, M.; Yoon, J. Design optimization and experimental evaluation of photovoltaic double skin faồade.EnergyBuild.2019,202, 109314. [CrossRef]21.Eom, Y .S.; Kang, D.H.; Choi, D.H. Numerical analysis of PM2.5particle collection efˆciency on an electrostatic precipitatorintegrated with double skin faồade in a residential home.Build. Environ.2019,162, 106245. [CrossRef]22.Stec, W.J.; van Paassen, A.H.C.; Maziarz, A. Modelling the double skin faồade with plants.Energy Build.2005,37, 419Ê427.[CrossRef]23.Flores Lazo, J. Integración en Fachada de Mecanismos de Depuración de Aire. Master’s Thesis, Polytechnic University ofCatalonia, Barcelona, Spain, 2019, (unpublished).24. Knaack, U.; Klein, T.; Bilow, M.; Auer, T.Faồades: Principles of Construction, 2nd ed.; Birkhỏuser: Boston, MA, USA, 2014.25.Prieto, A.; Klein, T.; Knaack, U.; Auer, T. Main perceived barriers for the development of building service integrated facades:Results from an exploratory expert survey .J. Build. Eng.2017,13, 96Ê106. [CrossRef]26. Panitz, T.; Wasan, D.T. Flow attachment to solid surfaces: The Coanda effect.AIChE J.1972,18, 51Ê57. [CrossRef]27.Aguilar, P .; Borunda, L.; Pardal, C. Additive manufacturing of variable-density ceramics, photocatalytic and ˆltering slats.InAnthropologic: Architecture and Fabrication in the Cognitive Age, Proceedings of the 38th eCAADe Conference, Berlin, Germany,16Ê17 September 2020; Technical University of Berlin: Berlin, Germany , 2020; V olume 1, pp. 97Ê106. Available online: https://cumincad.scix.net/cgi-bin/works/Show?ecaade2020_484 (accessed on 29 October 2021).28.Aguilar, P . Impresión 3D Cerámica de Densidad Variable Controlada. Ph.D. Dissertation, UPC, Architectural TechnologyDepartment, Barcelona, Spain, 2024. [CrossRef]29. Allard, F.; Santamouris, M. (Eds.)Natural Ventilation in Buildings: A Design Handbook; James & James: London, UK, 1998.
Buildings2024,14, 2481 17 of 17 30.ISO 17772-1:2017; Energy Performance of BuildingsỀIndoor Environmental Quality . Part 1: Indoor Environmental InputParameters for the Design and Assessment of Energy Performance of Buildings. International Organization for Standardization:Geneva, Switzerland, 2017.31.ISO/TR 17772-2:2018; Energy Performance of BuildingsỀOverall Energy Performance Assessment Procedures. Part 2: Guide-line for Using Indoor Environmental Input Parameters for the Design and Assessment of Energy Performance of Buildings.International Organization for Standardization: Geneva, Switzerland, 2018.32.BS EN 16798-1:2019; Energy Performance of Buildings. V entilation for Buildings. Part 1: Indoor Environmental Input Parametersfor Design and Assessment of Energy Performance of Buildings Addressing Indoor Air Quality , Thermal Environment, Lightingand Acoustics. British Standards Institution: London, UK, 2019.33.CEN/TR 16798-2: 2019; Energy Performance of Buildings. V entilation for Buildings. Part 2: Interpretation of the Requirements inEN 16798-1ỀIndoor Environmental Input Parameters for Design and Assessment of Energy Performance of Buildings AddressingIndoor Air Quality . ComitéEuropéen de Normalisation: Brussels, Belgium, 2019.34.ASHRAE Standard 62.1-2016.Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality; American Society of Heating, Refrigerating andAir-Conditioning Engineers: Washington, DC, USA, 2016.35.ASHRAE Standard 62.2-2010.Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Quality in Low Rise Residential Buildings; American Society of Heating,Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers: Washington, DC, USA, 2010.36.Khovalyg, D.; Kazanci, O.B.; Halvorsen, H.; Gundlach, I.; Bahn˜eth, W.P .; Toftum, J.; Olesen, B.W. Critical review of standards forindoor thermal environment and air quality .Energy Build.2020,213, 109819. [CrossRef]37.Espaợa Ministerio de la Presidencia. Real Decreto 1027/2007, de 20 de julio, por el que se aprueba el Reglamento de instalacionesTérmicas en los Ediˆcios. InBoletín Oˆcial del Estado; n. 207, 29/08/2007; MPR: Madrid, Spain, 2007; pp. 35931Ê35984. Availableonline: https://www.boe.es/boe/dias/2007/08/29/pdfs/A35931-35984.pdf (accessed on 28 October 2021).38.IDAE.Recomendaciones de Operación y Mantenimiento de los Sistemas de Climatización y Ventilación de Ediˆcios y Locales para laPrevención de la Propagación del SARS-CoV-2; Gobierno de Espaợa. Ministerio de Sanidad: Madrid, Spain; Ministerio para laTransición Ecológica y el Reto Demográˆco: Madrid, Spain; Instituto para la Diversiˆcación y Ahorro de la Energía: Madrid, Spain,2020. Available online: https://www.mscbs.gob.es/profesionales/saludPublica/ccayes/alertasActual/nCov/documentos/Recomendaciones_de_operacion_y_mantenimiento.pdf (accessed on 28 October 2021).39.Salonen, H.; Salthammer, T.; Morawska, L. Human exposure to NO2in school and ofˆce indoor environments.Environ. Int.2019,130, 104887. [CrossRef]40. Alberts, W.M. Indoor air pollution: NO, NO2, CO, and CO2.J. Allergy Clin. Immunol.1994,94, 289Ê295. [CrossRef] [PubMed]41.Ministerio para la Transición Ecológica y el Reto Demográˆco. Mapa de Calidad del Aire. 2024. Available online: https://sig.miteco.gob.es/calidad-aire/ (accessed on 7 August 2024).42.Generalitat de Catalunya.Qualitat de l’aire Actual; Medi Ambient i Sostenibilitat: Barcelona, Spain, 2024. Available online:https://mediambient.gencat.cat/ca/05_ambits_dactuacio/atmosfera/qualitat_de_laire/vols-saber-que-respires/ (accessed on7 August 2024).43.ISO 16890-1:2016; Air Filters for General V entilationỀPart 1: Technical Speciˆcations, Requirements and Classiˆcation syStemBased Upon Particulate Matter Efˆciency (ePM). International Organization for Standardization: Geneva, Switzerland, 2016.44.Kang, K.; Kim, T.; Shin, C.W.; Kim, K.; Kim, J.; Lee, Y .G. Filtration efˆciency and ventilation performance of window screen ˆlters.Build. Environ.2020,178, 106878. [CrossRef]45.Boyjoo, Y .; Sun, H.; Liu, J.; Pareek, V .K.; Wang, S. A review on photocatalysis for air treatment: From catalyst development toreactor design.Chem. Eng. J.2017,310, 537Ê559. [CrossRef]46.Maness, P .-C.; Smolinski, S.; Blake, D.M.; Huang, Z.; Wolfrum, E.J.; Jacoby , W.A. Bactericidal activity of photocatalytic TiO2reaction: Toward an understanding of its killing mechanism.Appl. Environ. Microbiol.1999,65, 4094Ê4098. [CrossRef] [PubMed]47.ISO 22197-1; Fine Ceramics (Advanced Ceramics, Advanced Technical Ceramics)ỀTest Method for Air-Puriˆcation Performanceof Semiconducting Photocatalytic Materials Ề Part 1: Removal of Nitric Oxide. International Organization for Standardization:Geneva, Switzerland, 2007.48.Manz, H. Total solar energy transmittance of glass double faồades with free convection.Energy Build.2004,36, 127Ê136. [CrossRef]49.Shameri, M.A.; Alghoul, M.A.; Sopian, K.; Zain, M.F.M.; Elayeb, O. Perspectives of double skin faồade systems in buildings andenergy saving.Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.2011,15, 1468Ê1475. [CrossRef]50.Roig, O.; Cuerva, E.; Pardal, C.; Guardo, A.; Isalgue, A.; Lopez-Besora, J. Thermal assessment of ventilated double skin faồadecomponent with a set of air ˆltering photocatalytic slats in the cavity .Buildings2023,13, 272. [CrossRef]51.Pardal March, C.; Paricio Ansuategui, I.; Aguilar Urquidez, P .; Lopez Besora, J.; Flores Lazo, J.; Roig Mayoral, O. Sistema deDepuración Fotocatalítica. Patent Number P202030141, 27 January 2022.52.Pardal March, C.; Lopez Besora, J.; Alonso Montolio, C.; Cuerva Contreras, E.; Guardo Zabaleta, A.; Flores Lazo, J. DispositivoPara Depuracion de Aire Con Lamas Con Propiedades Fotocataliticas (Modelo de Utilidad). Patent Number ES1248829, 17September 2020.Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note:The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individualauthor(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury topeople or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
buildings
Buildings␣2024,␣14,␣x␣FOR␣PEER␣REVIEW␣4␣of␣18␣␣ ␣␣(a)␣(b)␣␣(c)␣Figure␣1.␣(a)␣Cross␣section␣with␣the␣parts␣or␣the␣panel;␣(b)␣the␣panel␣with␣the␣air␣management␣zone␣and␣the␣puriÝcation␣zone;␣(c)␣the␣aspect␣of␣the␣component␣from␣indoor.␣2.3.␣The␣Slat␣There␣are␣two␣diﬀerent␣proposals␣for␣the␣slatÉs␣design:␣the␣slat␣which␣contains␣physi-cal␣Ýlters,␣and␣the␣slat␣which␣Ýlters.␣Both␣satisfy␣the␣same␣functions␣but␣do␣so␣through␣diﬀerent␣means,␣adapting␣to␣the␣possibilities␣oﬀered␣by␣each␣material␣and␣each␣manufac-turing␣process␣involved.␣The␣slat␣which␣contains␣Ýlters␣is␣based␣on␣an␣extruded␣proÝle␣covered␣by␣a␣photo-catalytic␣material␣on␣the␣upper␣side␣of␣the␣external␣surface.␣The␣geometry␣of␣the␣slat␣frees␣up␣an␣internal␣cavity␣in␣which␣one␣or␣several␣physical␣Ýlters␣can␣be␣Ýtted␣according␣to␣the␣requirements␣of␣the␣project␣(Figure␣2),␣as␣well␣as␣enabling␣the␣air␣which␣has␣already␣Ỹowed␣
Buildings␣2024,␣14,␣x␣FOR␣PEER␣REVIEW␣5␣of␣18␣␣ up␣an␣internal␣cavity␣in␣which␣one␣or␣several␣physical␣Ýlters␣can␣be␣Ýtted␣according␣to␣the␣requirements␣of␣the␣project␣(Figure␣2),␣as␣well␣as␣enabling␣the␣air␣which␣has␣already␣Ỹowed␣through␣the␣physical␣Ýlter␣to␣then␣Ỹow␣back␣across␣the␣exterior␣upper␣surface␣with␣the␣photocatalytic␣coating␣via␣the␣Coanda␣eﬀect␣[26].␣␣Figure␣2.␣Cross␣section␣of␣the␣slat␣which␣contains␣Ýlters.␣The␣Ýltering␣slat␣is␣a␣printed␣ceramic␣fretwork␣prism␣also␣coated␣in␣a␣photocatalytic␣material␣on␣the␣upper␣side␣(Figure␣3).␣Printing␣clay␣permits␣obtaining␣a␣slat␣traversed␣by␣channels␣with␣a␣variable␣section.␣It␣goes␣from␣less␣than␣1␣mm␣on␣the␣backside,␣to␣the␣width␣needed␣to␣obtain␣the␣maximum␣sun-exposed␣surface␣on␣the␣sunny␣face,␣which␣is␣between␣2␣and␣3␣mm.␣The␣printed␣ceramic␣allows␣the␣slat␣design␣to␣be␣adapted␣to␣each␣location␣and␣faồade␣orientation.␣The␣air␣crosses␣the␣prismatic␣monolith,␣depositing␣particles␣in␣suspen-sion␣during␣the␣circulation␣Ỹow␣by␣means␣of␣micro-channels␣on␣the␣rough-faced␣sides.␣The␣photocatalytic␣puriÝcation␣occurs␣when␣the␣air␣emerges␣through␣the␣upper␣face␣of␣the␣prism␣and␣comes␣into␣contact␣with␣the␣titanium␣dioxide␣coating.␣On␣this␣upper␣face,␣the␣increase␣in␣the␣capillary␣section␣size␣enables␣a␣greater␣exposure␣to␣the␣solar␣radiation␣re-quired␣for␣the␣photocatalytic␣process␣[27].␣␣Figure␣3.␣Printed␣ceramic␣with␣diﬀerent␣fretwork␣patterns.␣The␣ceramic␣slats␣are␣not␣disposable␣Ýlters␣but␣are␣cleaned␣by␣vacuuming␣and,␣there-fore,␣do␣not␣generate␣waste.␣Consequently,␣the␣double-skin␣panel␣needs␣to␣be␣openable␣from␣the␣inside␣to␣permit␣the␣cleaning␣of␣the␣slats␣[28].␣␣␣
Buildings␣2024,␣14,␣x␣FOR␣PEER␣REVIEW␣5␣of␣18␣␣ up␣an␣internal␣cavity␣in␣which␣one␣or␣several␣physical␣Ýlters␣can␣be␣Ýtted␣according␣to␣the␣requirements␣of␣the␣project␣(Figure␣2),␣as␣well␣as␣enabling␣the␣air␣which␣has␣already␣Ỹowed␣through␣the␣physical␣Ýlter␣to␣then␣Ỹow␣back␣across␣the␣exterior␣upper␣surface␣with␣the␣photocatalytic␣coating␣via␣the␣Coanda␣eﬀect␣[26].␣␣Figure␣2.␣Cross␣section␣of␣the␣slat␣which␣contains␣Ýlters.␣The␣Ýltering␣slat␣is␣a␣printed␣ceramic␣fretwork␣prism␣also␣coated␣in␣a␣photocatalytic␣material␣on␣the␣upper␣side␣(Figure␣3).␣Printing␣clay␣permits␣obtaining␣a␣slat␣traversed␣by␣channels␣with␣a␣variable␣section.␣It␣goes␣from␣less␣than␣1␣mm␣on␣the␣backside,␣to␣the␣width␣needed␣to␣obtain␣the␣maximum␣sun-exposed␣surface␣on␣the␣sunny␣face,␣which␣is␣between␣2␣and␣3␣mm.␣The␣printed␣ceramic␣allows␣the␣slat␣design␣to␣be␣adapted␣to␣each␣location␣and␣faồade␣orientation.␣The␣air␣crosses␣the␣prismatic␣monolith,␣depositing␣particles␣in␣suspen-sion␣during␣the␣circulation␣Ỹow␣by␣means␣of␣micro-channels␣on␣the␣rough-faced␣sides.␣The␣photocatalytic␣puriÝcation␣occurs␣when␣the␣air␣emerges␣through␣the␣upper␣face␣of␣the␣prism␣and␣comes␣into␣contact␣with␣the␣titanium␣dioxide␣coating.␣On␣this␣upper␣face,␣the␣increase␣in␣the␣capillary␣section␣size␣enables␣a␣greater␣exposure␣to␣the␣solar␣radiation␣re-quired␣for␣the␣photocatalytic␣process␣[27].␣␣Figure␣3.␣Printed␣ceramic␣with␣diﬀerent␣fretwork␣patterns.␣The␣ceramic␣slats␣are␣not␣disposable␣Ýlters␣but␣are␣cleaned␣by␣vacuuming␣and,␣there-fore,␣do␣not␣generate␣waste.␣Consequently,␣the␣double-skin␣panel␣needs␣to␣be␣openable␣from␣the␣inside␣to␣permit␣the␣cleaning␣of␣the␣slats␣[28].␣␣␣
Buildings␣2024,␣14,␣x␣FOR␣PEER␣REVIEW␣6␣of␣18␣␣ 3.␣Component␣Functionality␣Tests␣The␣adequacy␣of␣this␣element␣in␣the␣functioning␣of␣a␣natural␣ventilated␣building␣lies␣in␣its␣capacity␣to␣provide␣optimum␣performance␣in␣diﬀerent␣aspects:␣ventilation,␣air␣puri-Ýcation,␣solar␣protection,␣and␣thermal␣performance.␣Although␣the␣novelty␣of␣the␣system␣lies␣in␣the␣air␣puriÝcation␣capacity␣of␣the␣slat,␣the␣other␣aspects␣are␣necessary␣to␣verify␣its␣applicability␣in␣buildings.␣To␣facilitate␣understanding,␣the␣text␣is␣structured␣so␣that␣each␣section␣contains␣the␣methodology␣used,␣the␣results,␣and␣the␣main␣Ýndings␣of␣the␣studied␣aspect.␣These␣aspects␣were␣analysed␣using␣a␣theoretical␣faồade␣unit␣measuring␣1␣m␣wide␣by␣2␣m␣high␣in␣a␣non-residential␣building␣in␣a␣Mediterranean␣climate␣zone,␣at␣a␣latitude␣of␣41ặ␣N.␣3.1.␣Building␣Ventilation␣The␣Ýrst␣veriÝcation␣was␣how␣to␣integrate␣this␣component␣in␣a␣building␣with␣natural␣ventilation.␣In␣detail,␣the␣component␣has␣a␣low-level␣opening␣that␣provides␣the␣air␣intake␣with␣a␣lengthwise␣gap,␣the␣dimensions␣of␣which␣depend␣on␣the␣ventilation␣rate␣required␣indoors.␣Unlike␣conventional␣windows,␣which␣produce␣ventilation␣both␣in␣and␣out,␣the␣system␣works␣only␣in␣one␣direction,␣towards␣the␣interior.␣Once␣inside,␣the␣air␣crosses␣the␣space␣and␣must␣be␣extracted␣elsewhere:␣through␣another␣faồade␣opening␣(cross␣ventila-tion)␣or␣towards␣a␣courtyard␣located␣inside␣the␣building.␣An␣example␣of␣a␣possible␣natural␣ventilation␣scheme␣at␣the␣building␣scale␣is␣shown␣in␣Figure␣4.␣In␣this␣sketch,␣the␣air␣inlet␣is␣produced␣through␣each␣faồade␣component,␣while␣the␣air␣outlet␣is␣produced␣on␣the␣oppo-site␣wall,␣connected␣to␣a␣ventilation␣shaft.␣The␣physical␣processes␣involved␣are␣not␣simple␣since␣many␣parameters␣inỸuence␣air␣movement␣in␣buildings,␣especially␣in␣those␣which␣are␣naturally␣ventilated:␣leakage␣distribution␣in␣the␣building␣envelope,␣internal␣and␣external␣temperatures,␣wind␣velocity,␣and␣wind␣direction,␣to␣name␣a␣few␣[29].␣The␣analysis␣of␣the␣component␣comprised␣the␣dimensional␣requirements␣to␣fulÝl␣ventilation␣rates␣according␣to␣regulations.␣␣Figure␣4.␣Scheme␣of␣a␣possible␣building␣ventilation␣strategy␣using␣an␣atrium␣with␣a␣draught-enhanc-ing␣chimney.␣International␣standards␣and␣local␣regulations␣establish␣ventilation␣rates␣in␣accordance␣with␣diﬀerent␣building␣categories␣(ISO␣17772-1:2017␣[30],␣ISO␣17772-2:2018␣[31],␣EN␣16798-1:2019␣[32],␣CEN/TR␣16798-2:2019␣[33],␣ASHRAE␣62.1:2016␣[34],␣ASHRAE␣62.2:2016␣[35]),␣which␣can␣be␣obtained␣by␣diﬀerent␣methods␣[36].␣The␣Spanish␣regulation,␣Reglamento␣de␣las␣Instalaciones␣Tỗrmicas␣de␣los␣EdiÝcios␣(RITE)␣[37],␣uses␣similar␣methods.␣Regulatory␣standards␣classify␣air␣Ỹow␣rates␣in␣categories␣according␣to␣the␣percentage␣of␣dissatisÝed␣
Buildings␣2024,␣14,␣x␣FOR␣PEER␣REVIEW␣10␣of␣18␣␣ Phase␣3:␣air␣+␣NO␣in␣reactor␣mode␣for␣30␣min␣ Phase␣4:␣air␣+␣NO␣in␣reactor␣mode␣+␣UV-A␣for␣300␣min␣Phase␣5:␣cleaning␣with␣air␣for␣30␣min␣ Table␣5.␣Results␣of␣the␣laboratory␣tests␣in␣each␣sample:␣conversion␣percentage␣of␣NO␣and␣NOx␣(XNO-XNOx),␣quantity␣of␣NO␣and␣NOx␣degradation␣in␣ẹmol␣(NOe-NOxe),␣quantity␣of␣NO2␣formed␣in␣ẹmol␣(NO2).␣NUM.␣CODE␣ XNO␣ (%)␣XNOX␣(%)␣ NOe␣(ẹmol)␣ NOxe␣(ẹmol)␣ NO2␣(ẹmol)␣ 1␣AX-PUR␣ 3␣ 1␣ 1.36␣ 0.37␣ 1.26␣ 2␣AX-PVC␣ 5␣ 3␣ 1.97␣ 1.05␣ 0.92␣3␣AX-CLE␣ 9␣ 5␣ 3.46␣ 2.15␣ 1.31␣4␣ CI-1C-PUR␣ -␣-␣-␣-␣-␣5␣CI-1C-CLE␣ 3␣ 2␣ 1.2␣ 0.46␣ 0.74␣6␣CI-2C-PUR␣ 3␣ 2␣ 1.45␣ 1.10␣ 0.50␣7␣CI-1C-PVC␣ 5␣ 3␣ 2.13␣ 1.10␣ 1.00␣8␣ CX-PUR␣ -␣-␣-␣-␣-␣9␣CX-CLE␣ 2␣ 1␣ 0.90␣ 0.68␣ -␣10␣CX-PVC␣ 2␣ 2␣ 0.90␣ 0.70␣ -␣11␣AE-M-PUR␣ 2␣ 2␣ 0.8␣ 0.67␣ 0.10␣ The␣results␣show␣that␣the␣best␣performance␣was␣obtained␣with␣sample␣3,␣extruded␣aluminium␣with␣a␣ProCleanỄ␣paint␣coating.␣The␣percentages␣of␣chemical␣conversion␣of␣NO␣and␣NOx␣obtained␣were␣9%␣and␣5%,␣respectively.␣Figure␣5␣shows␣the␣conversion␣rate␣during␣the␣test.␣In␣Phase␣4,␣under␣UV-A␣radiation,␣there␣is␣a␣noticeable␣drop␣in␣the␣NO␣and␣NOx␣components,␣together␣with␣an␣increase␣in␣the␣amount␣of␣NO2.␣The␣other␣samples␣showed␣less␣activity,␣with␣percentages␣ranging␣from␣2␣to␣5%␣of␣NO␣degradation,␣and␣from␣1␣to␣3%␣conversion␣of␣NOx.␣The␣results␣on␣the␣printed␣ceramics␣were␣lower␣than␣5%,␣though␣the␣air␣Ỹow␣in␣a␣real␣environment␣would␣favour␣absorption␣and␣diﬀusion␣and,␣therefore,␣could␣imply␣an␣improvement␣in␣the␣photocatalytic␣process.␣␣Figure␣5.␣Conversion␣of␣NO␣and␣NOx␣obtained␣for␣sample␣AX-CLE,␣based␣on␣[47].␣The␣results␣obtained␣show␣the␣eﬀectiveness␣of␣the␣photocatalytic␣reaction␣on␣the␣sam-ples␣coated␣outside␣the␣laboratory.␣The␣application␣of␣the␣TiO2␣to␣the␣samples␣was␣pro-duced␣without␣strict␣control␣of␣the␣thickness␣and␣the␣amount␣of␣coating␣deposited,␣which␣
Buildings␣2024,␣14,␣x␣FOR␣PEER␣REVIEW␣11␣of␣18␣␣ could␣present␣slight␣variations.␣Considering␣this,␣a␣thicker␣application␣of␣photocatalytic␣coating␣could␣yield␣better␣results␣in␣terms␣of␣NO␣degradation.␣Apart␣from␣this,␣the␣results␣show␣the␣reaction␣on␣a␣single␣surface␣corresponding␣to␣one␣slat.␣If␣the␣eﬀect␣was␣cumula-tive,␣a␣combination␣of␣Ýve␣slats␣in␣the␣faồade␣unit␣would␣suppose␣a␣higher␣NO␣degrada-tion,␣provided␣that␣the␣conditions␣were␣optimal.␣This␣procedure␣would␣require␣a␣Ỹuid-dynamic␣model␣to␣test␣the␣precise␣eﬀect␣in␣the␣whole␣component.␣3.3.␣Solar␣Protection␣The␣slats␣contained␣in␣the␣faồade␣component␣manage␣solar␣radiation␣like␣a␣conven-tional␣louver␣in␣a␣Mediterranean␣climate.␣But␣at␣the␣same␣time,␣the␣photocatalytic␣coating␣requires␣access␣to␣solar␣radiation␣to␣activate␣the␣chemical␣reaction,␣which␣will␣be␣most␣ef-fective␣with␣high␣irradiation.␣Thus,␣the␣component␣has␣a␣twofold␣function:␣protecting␣the␣interior␣of␣the␣building␣from␣overheating␣and␣guaranteeing␣solar␣access␣to␣the␣upper␣part␣of␣the␣slats.␣Other␣aesthetic␣requirements␣of␣the␣component␣are␣keeping␣the␣appearance␣of␣a␣louver,␣with␣a␣reasonable␣distribution␣of␣slats,␣and␣allowing␣a␣view␣of␣the␣outside.␣The␣optimal␣distribution␣and␣geometrical␣design␣of␣a␣faồade␣component␣was␣determined␣with␣these␣requirements␣in␣mind.␣The␣calculation␣settings␣were␣deÝned␣according␣to␣the␣dimensional␣conditions␣of␣the␣faồade␣component.␣The␣width␣of␣the␣air␣chamber␣was␣Ýxed␣at␣20␣cm,␣with␣a␣length␣of␣100␣cm.␣The␣total␣componentÉs␣vertical␣dimension␣is␣200␣cm,␣which␣accommodates␣a␣distribu-tion␣of␣slats␣6␣cm␣thick.␣The␣geographical␣position␣of␣the␣faồade␣component␣was␣Ýxed␣at␣latitude␣41ặ␣N.␣With␣the␣aim␣of␣receiving␣maximum␣solar␣radiation␣on␣the␣coating,␣the␣component␣was␣oriented␣towards␣the␣south,␣the␣optimal␣orientation␣in␣the␣northern␣hem-isphere.␣The␣geometrical␣analysis␣sought␣two␣parameters,␣the␣optimal␣spacing␣between␣slats,␣and␣their␣angle␣of␣tilt.␣The␣geometric␣spacing␣between␣slats␣depends␣on␣the␣sunÉs␣position␣during␣certain␣periods␣of␣the␣year,␣and␣the␣depth␣of␣the␣slat␣(Figure␣6a).␣The␣height␣of␣the␣sun␣on␣the␣summer␣solstice␣Ýxes␣the␣maximum␣separation␣between␣slats␣which,␣at␣41ặ␣N␣latitude,␣results␣in␣61.55␣cm␣(from␣the␣lower␣side␣of␣one␣slat␣to␣the␣upper␣side␣of␣the␣next␣slat).␣At␣the␣opposite␣extreme,␣the␣minimum␣spacing␣that␣guarantees␣the␣upper␣surface␣of␣the␣slats␣are␣exposed␣to␣the␣sun␣all␣year␣is␣9.3␣cm,␣which␣corresponds␣to␣the␣position␣of␣the␣sun␣on␣the␣winter␣solstice.␣The␣61.55␣cm␣spacing␣would␣imply␣only␣three␣slats␣per␣module␣and␣was␣therefore␣discarded.␣Taking␣into␣consideration␣the␣separation␣deÝned␣by␣the␣sunÉs␣position␣in␣the␣equinox,␣the␣sun␣would␣reach␣inside␣the␣building␣three␣months␣before␣and␣after␣the␣day␣of␣the␣winter␣solstice␣(October-March),␣as␣shown␣in␣the␣stereographic␣solar␣diagram␣(Figure␣6b).␣In␣this␣case,␣the␣spacing␣would␣be␣22.6␣cm.␣This␣separation␣creates␣a␣rhythm␣of␣blocked␣and␣open␣vision␣in␣the␣ratio␣1:3.7␣(6␣and␣22.6␣cm)␣that␣assimilates␣the␣appearance␣of␣a␣louver␣module;␣with␣this␣spacing,␣the␣module␣could␣incorporate␣six␣slats␣arranged␣in␣a␣2␣m␣high␣cavity.␣␣␣(a)␣(b)␣
Buildings␣2024,␣14,␣x␣FOR␣PEER␣REVIEW␣12␣of␣18␣␣ Figure␣6.␣(a)␣Section␣with␣solar␣altitude␣on␣the␣winter␣solstice,␣summer␣solstice,␣and␣equinox␣at␣lati-tude␣41ặ␣N;␣(b)␣solar␣obstruction␣of␣the␣slats␣in␣the␣stereographic␣solar␣diagram.␣Considering␣the␣climate␣data␣for␣Barcelona,␣a␣city␣located␣at␣41ặN␣latitude␣with␣a␣Mediterranean␣climate,␣it␣may␣be␣seen␣that␣the␣mean␣temperatures␣from␣June␣to␣September␣are␣above␣20Ê21␣ặC␣(Figure␣7).␣This␣is␣the␣same␣period␣when␣the␣slats␣protect␣the␣building␣interior␣from␣direct␣solar␣radiation,␣and␣this␣shade␣helps␣to␣avoid␣overheating␣during␣the␣warmest␣months.␣Apart␣from␣this,␣the␣annual␣number␣of␣hours␣of␣sun␣in␣the␣Mediterra-nean␣climate␣zone␣is␣high␣(in␣Barcelona␣it␣exceeds␣2315),␣which␣guarantees␣optimal␣radiant␣conditions␣for␣activating␣the␣photocatalytic␣process.␣␣Figure␣7.␣Temperatures␣at␣Barcelona␣airport:␣mean,␣mean␣maximum,␣and␣mean␣minimum␣(Source:␣
Buildings␣2024,␣14,␣x␣FOR␣PEER␣REVIEW␣13␣of␣18␣␣ ␣Figure␣8.␣SlatsÉ␣arrangement␣with␣0ặ,␣10ặ,␣20ặ,␣30ặ␣and␣40ặ␣inclination.␣3.4.␣Thermal␣Behaviour␣The␣repercussions␣on␣indoor␣thermal␣comfort␣of␣this␣component␣depend␣on␣if␣it␣is␣open,␣allowing␣ventilation,␣or␣closed.␣When␣closed,␣the␣heat␣exchanges␣between␣the␣inside␣and␣outside␣depend␣on␣the␣heat␣transfer␣coeﬃcient,␣the␣U-value␣of␣the␣double-skin␣faồade␣and␣the␣solar␣energy␣transmittance␣of␣the␣component.␣Both␣values␣can␣vary␣depending␣on␣the␣characteristics␣of␣the␣glass␣panes␣that␣conÝgure␣both␣sides␣of␣the␣component.␣In␣the␣case␣of␣the␣total␣solar␣energy␣transmittance,␣this␣value␣can␣change␣by␣a␣factor␣greater␣than␣Ýve␣according␣to␣some␣studies␣[48].␣However,␣the␣main␣concern␣in␣this␣case␣is␣the␣temperature␣of␣the␣incoming␣air␣after␣sweeping␣over␣the␣surface␣of␣the␣slats.␣When␣the␣air␣crosses␣the␣double-glazed␣cavity,␣its␣temperature␣is␣expected␣to␣increase␣because␣of␣the␣greenhouse␣eﬀect␣and␣the␣heat␣transfer␣between␣the␣slats␣and␣the␣air.␣This␣rise␣in␣the␣temperature␣of␣the␣air␣crossing␣the␣cavity␣and␣the␣surface␣temperature␣of␣the␣glass␣panes␣is␣diﬃcult␣to␣determine␣[49].␣One␣of␣the␣diﬃ-culties␣is␣that␣the␣absorptivity␣and␣emissivity␣of␣photocatalytic␣coatings␣is␣not␣available␣in␣datasheets.␣In␣a␣previous␣experiment␣conducted␣with␣ceramic␣samples␣and␣a␣ProClean-Air␣photocatalytic␣coating,␣we␣could␣determine␣the␣long-wave␣emissivity␣of␣the␣coating.␣It␣turned␣out␣to␣be␣0.59␣on␣average␣with␣an␣uncertainty␣of␣0.13␣[50].␣To␣determine␣the␣order␣of␣magnitude␣of␣the␣increase␣in␣temperature,␣we␣installed␣a␣mock-up␣of␣the␣university␣terrace␣in␣the␣summer␣of␣2019␣and␣carried␣out␣a␣series␣of␣tem-perature␣measurements␣[50].␣It␣was␣used␣as␣an␣experimental␣preliminary␣study␣of␣the␣com-ponent␣thermal␣behaviour␣and␣to␣validate␣a␣further␣CFD␣simulation␣of␣the␣component.␣The␣mock-up␣was␣built␣with␣wooden␣and␣cardboard␣slats␣(manually␣painted␣with␣a␣pho-tocatalytic␣ProCleanTM␣paint),␣wooden␣structure,␣and␣single␣glass␣on␣both␣sides,␣and␣was␣oriented␣towards␣the␣south.␣The␣dimensions␣are␣shown␣in␣Figure␣9.␣As␣proof␣of␣concept,␣some␣preliminary␣measurements␣were␣also␣taken␣using␣a␣MQ-2␣gas␣sensor␣and␣an␣Arduino␣board␣connected␣to␣a␣computer.␣These␣measurements␣indicated␣a␣decrease␣of␣around␣15%␣on␣the␣pollution␣products␣sensed␣by␣the␣MQ-2␣in␣the␣air␣passing␣through␣the␣mock-up.␣As␣for␣the␣temperature␣measurements,␣they␣were␣taken␣in␣warm␣and␣cold␣periods␣and␣showed␣an␣average␣increase␣in␣air␣temperature␣of␣about␣6Ê10␣ặC␣between␣the␣air␣on␣the␣lower␣inlet␣and␣the␣air␣on␣the␣upper␣outlet␣[50].␣
Buildings␣2024,␣14,␣x␣FOR␣PEER␣REVIEW␣14␣of␣18␣␣ ␣Figure␣9.␣Dimensions␣of␣the␣mock-up␣used␣for␣preliminary␣temperature␣measurements.␣In␣parallel,␣a␣rough␣calculation␣of␣the␣single␣component␣thermal␣balance␣was␣made␣to␣determine␣the␣increase␣in␣temperature␣of␣the␣air␣in␣the␣cavity.␣The␣calculation␣considers␣that␣at␣a␣given␣time,␣the␣gains␣for␣solar␣radiation␣and␣the␣losses␣caused␣by␣ventilation␣and␣heat␣transfer␣are␣equal,␣as␣the␣thermal␣mass␣is␣low.␣The␣parameters␣considered␣in␣heat␣losses␣were␣the␣surface␣that␣encloses␣the␣cavity␣with␣its␣corresponding␣U-value␣(glass␣and␣wood),␣air␣Ỹow␣(Q),␣air␣density␣(δ)␣and␣air␣speciÝc␣heat␣(Ce).␣The␣parameters␣considered␣in␣heat␣gains␣were␣solar␣irradiation␣in␣a␣vertical␣plan␣on␣the␣4th␣of␣October␣at␣12:00␣ST␣(midday␣near␣Equinox)␣(Rv)␣at␣the␣latitude␣41ặ␣N,␣exposed␣glass␣surface␣(S),␣light␣trans-mission␣of␣the␣glass␣(t),␣and␣light␣absorption␣of␣the␣elements␣inside␣the␣cavity␣(α)␣(Table␣6).␣Applying␣Equation␣(3),␣the␣increase␣in␣the␣temperature␣of␣the␣air␣in␣the␣cavity␣resulted␣in␣almost␣10␣ặC.␣This␣value␣is␣in␣concordance␣with␣what␣was␣measured␣in␣the␣mock-up.␣(Sg␣ề␣Ug␣+␣Sw␣ề␣Uw)␣ề␣∆T␣+␣(Qa␣ề␣∂a␣ề␣Cea)␣ề␣∆T␣=␣Rv␣ề␣Sg␣ề␣t␣ềα␣(3)␣Table␣6.␣Parameters␣considered␣in␣Equation␣(3).␣␣␣ S␣ (m2)␣U␣ (W/m2K)␣Q␣ (m3/s)␣δ␣(kg/m3)␣ Ce␣(W/ặC␣Kg)␣ Losses␣Glass␣Sg␣=␣1.50␣Ug␣=␣5␣␣ ␣ ␣ Wood␣Sw␣=␣0.8␣Uw␣=␣2.54␣␣ ␣ ␣Air␣␣ ␣ Qa␣=␣0.002␣δa␣=␣1.21␣Cea␣=␣1006␣Gains␣␣S␣(m2)␣t␣α␣Rv␣(W/m2)␣␣ Glass␣Sg␣=␣0.75␣0.96␣ 0.2␣ ␣ ␣Sol.rad.␣ ␣␣␣ Rv␣=␣600␣␣ The␣preheating␣of␣the␣air␣for␣ventilation␣provides␣the␣possibility␣of␣using␣the␣compo-nent␣as␣a␣passive␣heating␣element,␣depending␣on␣the␣relation␣between␣local␣temperatures␣and␣the␣temperature␣rise␣produced␣in␣the␣cavity.␣These␣results␣illustrate␣the␣possible␣in-crease␣in␣temperature␣in␣a␣similar␣situation␣and␣suppose␣a␣starting␣point␣for␣further␣anal-ysis,␣since␣the␣mock-up␣was␣installed␣in␣an␣isolated␣open␣space.␣In␣this␣line,␣we␣conducted␣a␣simulation␣in␣diﬀerent␣climates␣and␣concluded␣that␣the␣geographical␣areas␣where␣we␣could␣take␣advantage␣of␣the␣full␣potential␣of␣Ýltering␣and␣passive␣preheating␣would␣be␣in␣temperate␣or␣cold␣areas␣with␣many␣hours␣of␣solar␣radiation␣[50].␣These␣areas␣could␣be␣