buAMfkfkd BflMfMfCoY AS A SUSTAfkABib AmmolACe Tl fkarSTofAi aESIdk Selin Çiko, Arkin University of Creative Arts and Design, 200302001@arucad.edu.tr Abstract: This research paper delves into the intersection of sustainability and biomimetic design in industrial design. The approach used is a qualitative methodologyI specifically a descriptive methodology through a literature reviewI to explore the utilization of biomimicry in susta inable industrial design. The study analyzes the definition of sustainable design and the concepts of biomimetic designI emphasizing the potential for energy efficient products. However, there are currently limited examples of large - scale application of bi omimicry in design as it is a relatively new subject. The research examines case studies to provide information and data from sources such as The burope Sustainable aevelopment Report O0O1. The research has limitations such as a potential focus on a specif ic aspect of industrial design and biomimicryI lack of sufficient empirical dataI and practicality and feasibility of proposed solutions. AdditionallyI the study may only focus on a small number of case studies, which may not be representative of the broad er field. The literature review presents the concepts of sustainability and its approaches, the importance of sustainable design in industrial designI and the characteristics, approaches, levels, dimensions, and strategies of biomimetic designI as well as its application in product design. The paper also includes case studies, including the methodologyI data collectionI and analysis used to arrive at the results and recommendations. The conclusion summarizes the key findings, that biomimicry can reduce the need for resource - intensive materials and processesI improve the performance and functionality of productsI and reduce the negative impact of human activities on the environment, and provides recommendations for future research.
1. Introduction In today's worldI there is an increasing need to find sustainable solutions to the problems caused by human industrial activity. One approach that has gained traction in recent years is biomimicryI the practice of looking to nature for inspiration in the d esign of human - made products and systems. Biomimicry can provide new and innovative ways to tackle issues such as energy efficiencyI waste management, and material use in the field of industrial design. The goal of this study is to explore the potential o f biomimicry to provide sustainable solutions for industrial design. (Ilieva et al.I O0OOF This research examines the ways in which biomimicry has been applied in the past and the opportunities for future growth and development in the field. The study will also look at the potential challenges and limitations of biomimicryI and offer recommendations for how it can be implemented in industrial design to achieve maximum impact. OverallI this study aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the current state of biomimicry in industrial designI and to illustrate the potential of this approach to provide sustainable solutions for the field. 1.1. Methodology and scope of study Qualitative methodology has been applied for this research. The study implemented a descriptive methodology through a literature review to investigate the use of biomimicry in sustainable industrial design. The definition of sustainable design will be analyzed with the concepts of biomimetic design that have been discussed after evaluatin g the major academic works, and as a result, the biomimetic design has been emphasized as a encouraging solution for energy efficient products. There are very few examples of biomimicry being used on a large scale in design because it is still a relatively new subject and many designers are still striving to comprehend and find methods to integrate this approach in their designs. Nevertheless case studies will be examined in this research which will provide information from articles and data from statistics such as The burope Sustainable Development Report O0O1.
1.2. iimitations The research may only focus on a specific aspect of industrial design and biomimicryI and may not cover all possible applications or areas of interest. The study may rely heavily on theoretical analysis and conceptual models, and may not have enough empirical data to validate the proposed solutions. The proposed solutions may not be practical or fe asible to implement in the current technological and economic context. The study may only focus on a small number of case studies, which may not be representative of the broader field of industrial design and biomimicry. iack of understanding of bio - inspir ed design in specific industry or fieldI which could lead to oversights or lack of considerations. 2. Literature Review O.1 Sustainability Sustainability refers to achieving our goals without affecting the capacity of coming generations to achieve their goals. te require social and economic resources in addition to natural resources. bnvironmentalism is only one aspect of sustainability. Most conceptions of sustainability also include considerations for economic growth and social equality. (that is sustainabilit y? (n.dF The concept of sustainability has a long historyI dating back to ancient civilizations, but the term itself was first introduced in the late 18th century by derman mining Figure 1 : Scope of Study (AuthorI 2023F. 
engineer Georg Agricola and later by Hans Carl von Carlowitz in his book Sylvicultura OeconomicaI which discussed the sustainable use of forest resources. The importance of preserving a balance between cutting down old trees and making sure there were enough new trees to replace them was emphasized. Other forestry authorities l ater promoted sustainable forestry and suggested actions to preserve forests, such as afforestation and the regeneration of growing timber, in order to ensure the long - term sustainability of these resources. (Du misani, O00SF The 19T0s energy crisis was a period of time in which there was a significant shortage of oil and gas, leading to high prices and long lines at gas stations. This crisis was caused by a number of factors, including the Arab oil embargo of 19T3 and the Iranian Revolution of 19T9. These events led to a decrease in the supply of oil and gas, which in turn led to higher prices and increased demand for alternative energy sources. The global economy and people's daily lives were significantly impacted by the energy crisis of the 19T0s. It pro mpted an emphasis on energy efficiency and the creation of alternative energy sources, such solar and wind energy. This crisis also led to a shift in thinking about the use of natural resources and the need for sustainable solutions. As a result, the energ y crisis of the 19T0s played a major role in the emergence of the modern environmental movement and the concept of sustainability. The need for sustainable energy solutions was highlighted during the energy crisis, which also emphasized the importance of r educing dependence on fossil fuels, improving energy efficiency and developing renewable energy sources. The crisis also made people aware of the need to conserve resources and to think about the long - term impacts of energy consumption. The lessons of the 19T0s energy crisis continue to shape the way we think about and approach energy todayI and it continues to be a touchstone for discussions about sustainability and the transition to a more sustainable energy future. (The 19T3 bnergy Crisis Sparked the Ide a for the fbA. that Have te iearned Since Then?I O0O3F . 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Index is a tool used to measure the progress of countries in achieving the United Nations' 1T sustainable development goals. The SDGs are a universal call to action to end povertyI protect the planet, and ensure tha t all people enjoy peace and prosperity by O030. The SDGs fndex assesses countries on a variety of indicators related to the SDGsI such as povertyI hunger, healthI educationI gender equalityI clean water and sanitationI and sustainable cities and communiti es. The index provides a comprehensive overview of a country's performance in achieving the SDGs, and can be used to identify areas where more progress is needed. It is a composite index that considers multiple dimensions of sustainable development and is based on the data from multiple sources including the torld BankI rkbSCO, and rkDP. It provides a benchmark for countries to track their progress and identify areas where they need to improve in order to achieve the SDGs. (Teb 1T dlAiS | Sustainable Develo pment, n.d. O.1.1 Sustainability approaches There are numerous approaches to becoming more sustainable. Such as building more durable and functional items that will need to be replaced less frequently will result in less effect from making replacements, as will using manufacturing techniques and end products that are more energy efficient than traditional processes Figure O : Sustainable aevelopment doals fndex (burope Sustainable aevelopment oeportI 2021)
and end products. (LibGuides: Sustainable mroduct Design: Sustainable Design mrinciples, n.d.) Although the term "biomimicry" was originally used in 19SOI it has only recently become mor e well - known. The term "biomimicry" derives from the dreek words "bios" (life) and "mimesis" (to resemble). In 199TI Janine Benyus provided one of the earliest published descriptions of biomimicry. She calls it "The conscious emulation of nature's genius," while mawlyn defines it as "Mimicking the functional basis of biological forms, processes, and systems to produce sustainable solutions." Many people think that a biomimicry strategy can significantly cut CO2 emissions while also saving money. According t o Michael PawlynI it is possible to reduce carbon emissions while saving money. Innovation is the solution. It is our responsibility as designers to ensure that the structures we design are consistent with their users and the surroundings they are in. The re are characteristics of how buildings are built, manufacturedI and viewed. te must be a part of the neighborhood where we are creating. (Nkandu and AlibabaI O018F O.1.1 fmportance of sustainable design in industrial design Today's world places a lot of e mphasis on the idea of sustainability in design. It means addressing immediate demands while preserving resources for use in the future. Contrary to common opinionI sustainability in industrial design is strongly tied to the product life cycle, human healt hI etc.I as well as waste and energy reduction. To create designs that can be categorized as sustainableI it is crucial to make sustainable decisions at every stage of the design and production process. As designers, we have a variety of responsibilities i n this processI including conceptualizing sustainabilityI selecting eco - friendly materials, lowering energy use and wasteI guaranteeing a good life cycle, and ensuring the product and its components are recyclable. (Gupta et al., O01RF O.2 Biomimetic aesig n Through biomimicryI we may get a compassionateI connected knowledge of how life works andI ultimatelyI how humans fit in. It is a strategy that borrows ideas from and 
copies the strategies used by organisms that are still extant today. Over billions of years of exploration and development, failures are fossilizedI and what is left is the secret to human life. The goal is to create brand - new ways of livingI procedures, and systems that tackle our biggest design issues sustainably and in cooperation with all living things. By using biomimicryI we may learn from nature's mistakes and successes while also helping to heal the environment and ourselves. te have the natural ability to build a world that sustains the wellbeing of all lifeI is harmoniousI and is regenerative. te are privileged enough to have direction as a developing society to enable us meet this task. The amazing network of plants, animals, and bacteria that makes up our planet has undergone billions of years of study and development. Sustainabl e innovation can be transformed by incorporating biological strategies into design. (Biomimicry fnstituteI that is BiomimicryI n.dF O.2.1 Biomimetic design characteristics Studies like Zari's 200T biomimetic architecture helped to explore the principles of the biomimetic technique at different scales. These investigations help us comprehend the workings of the natural world better. Only with explicit understanding of the natural world are solutions for architectural design conceivable. (Hafizi and harimnezh adI O0O1F bmulateI bthos, and (Re)Connect are the three key components that the science of the practice uses to translate natural tactics into design. These three elements, which permeate every facet of biomimicryI epitomize these fundamental principles. 1. bmulate Using natural ecosystems, processesI and forms as models to create more regenerative designs through a deliberateI scientific approach O. bthos The belief that through comprehending how life functions, we can build environments that sustain and improve life.
1. (Re)Connect The concept that it is crucial for us to have a feeling of location on barth since we are connected to all of nature. The approach of (Re)Connect urges us to observe and spend time in nature in order to gain a better understanding of how life works and to build a better ethos for simulating biological mechanisms in our creations. (Biomimicry InstituteI that is BiomimicryI n.dF O.2.O Biomimetic design approaches Approaches to using biomimicry in design often fall i nto one of two categories: defining a need or design issue for humans and investigating how other creatures or ecosystems address it, as described here Design influenced by biology (Top - Down methodF is the process of analyzing a propertyI behavior, or func tion of an organism or ecosystem and applying it to human - made creations (Bottom - Up approachF (Aziz and bl SherifI O01SF Figure 3 : Top - aown method, Bottom - up approach (Aziz and El SherifI 2016F
O.2.3 Biomimetic levels and dimensions Behavioral adaptation describes how an organism reacts to its environment in order to live. Biomimetic methods Two main strategies have been put out in the literature to use the knowledge of nature to architectural design. A top - down or problem - based approach starts the design process by determining the issue at hand. In this methodI the planner or designer recognizes the issue and looks to nature for a solution. As they come across an organism that has found a workaround for a compara ble issueI they abstract the finding and apply it to their design issue. (Hafizi and harimnezhadI O0O1F 1. Organism The basic unit of a biomimetic structure is an organism or structure. Nature paints a whole image of intricate and varied shapes. These orga nisms can adapt to shifting environmental conditions. O. Behavior At the behavior level, structures are created to reproduce a single entity. The individual's behavior, not the organism itselfI is imitated at the level of behavior. Similar replications of relationships between species or organisms may be feasible. 3. bcosystem One crucial component of biomimicry is ecosystem mimicryI often known as eco - mimicry. Combining the other two layers of biomimicry is an advantage of ecosystem - level design. These thr ee levels — from, material, constructionI process, and function — can be applied to many aspects (sub - levels) of design. (Hafizi and harimnezhadI O0O1F O.2.4 Biomimetic strategies 1. aynamic The dynamic adaptation typically shows a motion on a large scale. O. Static The static adaption approach operates at the micro - scale properties of materials. (Hafizi and harimnezhadI O0O1F O.2.R Biomimetic design and product design Biomimicry is the practice of designing and creating productsI systems, and processes that are inspired by and modeled after natural phenomena and ecosystems. It involves studying the structure, functionI and behavior of living organisms and their environments, and applying that knowledge to the design of sustainable solutions for human needs. ( Biomimicry fnstituteI that is BiomimicryI n.dF
There are several ways to apply biomimicry in industrial design: 1. Identify a problem or need that can be addressed through biomimicry. This could be a problem related to energy efficiencyI resource useI waste management, or any other area where nature has evolved successful solutions. 2. Research natural models or systems that address similar problems. iook for examples in nature of how living organisms have solved similar problemsI and consider how those solutions might be adapted for human use. 3. Analyze the structure and function of the natural model. Understand how it works and what makes it effectiveI and consider how those principles could be applied in the design of a new product or system. 4. Deve lop a prototype or concept based on the natural model. Use the insights and principles learned from the natural model to create a design that addresses the problem or need identified in step 1. 5. Test and refine the prototype. bvaluate the effectiveness a nd sustainability of the prototypeI and make any necessary adjustments to improve its performance. By following these steps, industrial designers can use biomimicry to develop innovative and sustainable solutions for a wide range of problems and needs . (McConnellI O0O1F Figure 4 : The product design process (McConnellI 2021F
3. Case Studies 3.1. Methodology The research methodology used for the biomimetic design case studies was content analysis. In order to find patterns and themes relating to the usage of biomimicry in designI this process involves systematically examining written or visual materials, such as research papers, publications, product design requirements, and other related papers. The case studies we re able to use content analysis to identify key trends and innovations in the field, as well as to obtain a deeper knowledge of how nature - inspired design ideas are being used in practice. This approach made it possible to examine the data in great detailI giving a thorough and in - depth analysis of the subject of biomimetic design. 3.2 Data collection: existing cases I. Mimicking Spider Silk: Spintex bngineering Spintex bngineering is a company that is working on developing technologies to produce spi der silk for use in a variety of applications. They use a process called electrospinning which creates fibers that have similar properties as spider silk, including high tensile strength and flexibility. The process is more scalable and sustainable than tr aditional methods of harvesting silk from spiders and has many potential applications, including medical products and sustainable fashion textiles. The company is currently focusing on developing its spider silk - like fibers for use in medical applications. (Spintex | Silk ReimaginedI n.d.F Figure R : eigh - performance Fibers(Spintex | TechnologyI n.d.F
f I. Diatoms (or Algae) Inspired tater Purification: Aquammodate Aquammodate is a company that is using biomimicry to develop a more sustainable and effective method for purifying water by replicating the filtration process of diatoms, a type of algaeI by using synthetic materials. The company's water purification system consists of a series of filters that mimic the structure of diatom cell walls and has potential applications in water treatment plants, industrial pr ocesses, and in developing countries. Aquammodate is using aquaporins to replicate the diatoms silica - based cell walls for a energy - efficient and selective technology that generates high purity grade water in a single filter pass, performs desalination at any scale and eliminates impurities and industrial pollutants like arsenic, microplastics, and pharmaceutical residues. (Aquammodate tater murification – Aquammodate tater PurificationI n.d.) Figure S : Fibers by Spintex bngineering (The Top 10 Biomimicry bxamples and fnnovations of 2021I n.d.F Figure T : tater murification by Aquammodate(The Top 10 Biomimicry bxamples and Innovations of 2021I n.d.F
fff. Mycelium fnspired Building Materials: Biohm Biohm is a company that is using biomimicry to develop sustainable and environmentally friendly building materials, inspired by the way myceliumI the vegetative part of fungi, grows and forms networks in nature. The company produces insulation and sheet material from mycelium and organic waste materials, which are strongI lightweight, and able to withstand extreme tempe ratures and conditions. The materials are also able to absorb and filter toxins from the airI making them potentially useful for use in areas with air pollution. The company aims to drive innovation in the building sector to produce a more sustainable buil t environment. (BflHM | the cuture of Home | iondonI n.d.) Figure 9 : Building Materials by Biohm (The Top 10 Biomimicry bxamples and fnnovations of 2021I n.d.F Figure 8 : Construction Systems (BfleM | the Future of eome | London, n.d.F
fV. lysters fnspired Ecosystem oestoration: dolt lyster oeefs dolt Oyster Reefs is a company that uses biomimicry to restore oyster reefs in a sustainable and effective way. The company's method mimics the natural growth and formation of oyster reefs by using a combination of natural and artificial materials to create a self - sustaining structure that can adapt to changing environmental conditions. The restoration process not only provides ecosystem benefits but also creates job opportunities and can boost local economies. The company's patented concrete mixtures and micro - and macro - designs are chemically comparable to oyster shells and help revive oyster populations. dolt's produc ts help to restore habitat for the long term by collaborating with nature to rebuild coastal ecosystems. (Grow lyster Reefs, O0OOF Figure 10: bcosystem oestoration by dolt lyster oeefs (The Top 10 Biomimicry bxamples and Innovations of 2021I n. d.F Figure 10 : dolt_ obbF DISK© for living shoreline enhancementI natural oyster larvae (spatF collection, oyster gardening and research. (drow lyster oeefs, 20OOF
s. Beetle fnspired thite migments: fmpossible Materials Impossible Materials is a company that is using biomimicry to develop a new type of white pigment for use in paints and coatings. The company's technology is inspired by the way some beetles are able to produce highly reflective white pigments, called biogenic microstructures, which are made up of smallI highly reflective crystals. Impossible Materials has developed a process for replicating these microstructures using synthetic materials to produce a white pigment that is more reflecti veI sustainable, and environmentally friendly than traditional white pigments. The pigment is being developed for use in a variety of applicationsI including in paints and coatings for buildings, vehicles, and other structures to reduce the energy needed f or lighting in buildings. (Impossible Materials, n.d.) Figure 11 : cellulose - based white pigment to replace the controversial, but most widely used white pigment, titanium dioxide (TiOOF (Cellulose White migments From Impossible Materials | | Atoa (ga), n.d.) Figure 12 : thite migments by Impossible Materials (The Top 10 Biomimicry bxamples and Innovations of O0O1I n.d.)
sI. Fog Harvester Beetle fnspired tater Capturing: fnfinite Cooling Infinite Cooling is a company that is using biomimicry to develop a new way to capture and harvest water from fog. They got inspiration from certain species of beetles that are able to survive in dryI desert environments by collecting wat er from fog that forms on their bodies. The company has developed a system that uses a similar mechanism to capture and harvest water from fog. The system is made of a series of vertical tubes or panels with a porous surface that is able to capture water d roplets from fog. The water droplets are then channeled towards the bottom of the tubes or panels, where they can be collected and stored for use. The fog harvesting system has a number of potential applications, including in areas where water is scarce or in disaster relief situations where access to clean water is limited. It could also be used to supplement traditional water sources in more developed areas. It also helps in saving millions of dollars and hundreds of millions of gallons of water each year by partially closing the water cycle loop at industrial operations. (Infinite Cooling | Cooling Tower tater Capturing | United States, n.d.) Figure 14 : Schematic of product on cooling tower, showing water usage and water recovery (fnfinite Cooling | James ayson Award, n.d.F Figure 13 : tater Capturing by fnfinite Cooling (The Top 10 Biomimicry bxamples and fnnovations of 2021I n.d.F
sff. Mussels fnspired Underwater Adhesive: Mussel molymer s fnc Mussel molymers Inc is a company that uses biomimicry to develop a new type of underwater adhesiveI inspired by the way mussels attach themselves to rocks and other underwater surfaces. They have created a non - toxic adhesive called moly (catechol) styrene (PCS) which is 300B stronger than other underwater adhesives, and is being introduced first for coral restoration. The adhesive is made from synthesized mussel adhesive protein (MAmF which is extremely strong and resistant to degradationI making it ideal f or use in aquatic environments. The company's adhesive is being developed for various applications including constructionI marine engineeringI and aquaculture, and has the potential to be more effective and sustainable than traditional underwater adhesives . (Mussel Polymers, n.d.) Figure 15 : Mussel molymers - aental and Biomedical Applications (Dental, n.d.) Figure 16 : rnderwater Adhesive by Mussel molymers fnc (The Top 10 Biomimicry bxamples and Innovations of 2021I n.d.F
sfff. Photosynthesis fnspired Chemical bnergy: kew fridium New Iridium is a company using biomimicry to develop a chemical energy storage system inspired by photosynthesis. Their system uses specialized cells to capture sunlight and convert it into chemical energyI which is stored in a chemical compound that can be used to power various applications such as transportation and electricity generation. This system has the potential to be more sustainable an d environmentally friendly than traditional energy storage methods, and reduce reliance on fossil fuels. The company's technology also utilizes organic compounds to enable photocatalysis, which reduces the time and energy required for chemical reactionsI l owering costs and promoting green chemistry in the industry. The company has already been using their products in the pharmaceutical and chemical industry. (New fridiumI O0OOF Figure 17 : Chemical bnergy by kew fridium (T he Top 10 Biomimicry bxamples and Innovations of 2021I n.d.F
fu. Fungi Inspired Industrial Land Restoration: Novobiom Novobiom is a company using biomimicry to develop a more sustainable and effective method for restoring industrial lands by using fungi to break down and decompose organic matter. They execute mycoremediation on - siteI using naturally occurring fungi that target certain toxins like oil or heavy metals. kovobiom's technology involves introducing specific types of fungi t o the contaminated siteI which then break down and remove the contaminants, restoring the land to a more natural state. This method has potential benefits of being more sustainable and environmentally friendly than traditional methods and reducing the impa ct of human activities on the environment. (Novobiom | BioremediationI n.d.) Figure 19 : Fungi (fmpulse, n.d.F Figure 18 : Land oestoration by kovobiom (The Top 10 Biomimicry bxamples and fnnovations of 2021I n.d.F
u. Tidal Streams fnspired Hemp Fiber Processing: Renaissance Fiber Renaissance Fiber is a company that uses biomimicry to develop a more sustainable and efficient way to process hemp fibers. The company's technology is inspired by the way tidal streams transport and sort particles in the ocean. Renaissance Fiber has developed a machine that uses a series of tubes and chambers to transport and sort hemp fibers based on their size and densityI allowing them t o produce high - quality fibers more efficiently and sustainably than traditional methods. The company's hemp fiber processing technology has potential benefits such as being more environmentally friendly and reducing energy and resources needed for producti onI making it more cost - effective. AdditionallyI the technique developed by Renaissance Fiber sequesters carbon which may then be recycled. (Renaissance Fiber, n.d.) Figure 21 : mroducts (mroducts & Services | oenaissance FiberI n.d.F Figure 20 : eemp Fiber mrocessing by oenaissance Fiber (The Top 10 Biomimicry bxamples and Innovations of 2021I n.d.F
3..3 aata analysis and findings The table provides an overview of several case studies of biomimetic designI highlighting key characteristics, levels, strategies, and design approaches used in each case. # Case Study Biomimetic Characteristics Biomimetic Level Biomimetic Strategy Biomimetic Design Approaches Emulate Ethos (Re)Connect Organism Behavior Ecosystem Dynamic Static Top - Down Bottom - Up f Spintex Engineering u u u u ff Aquammodate u u u u fff Biohm u u u u fs dolt Oyster Reefs u u u u u s Impossible Materials u u u u sf Infinite Cooling u u u u sff Mussel molymers Inc u u u u sfff kew Iridium u u u u fu kovobiom u u u u u u u Renaissance Fiber u u u u
4. Results an d recommendations There is growing evidence that biomimicry can be a valuable tool for providing sustainable solutions in the field of industrial design. By studying and mimicking the strategies and mechanisms used by nature to solve problems, designers ca n develop more innovative and effective products and processes that are less resource - intensive and have a smaller environmental impact. (Biomimicry InstituteI that is BiomimicryI n.dF One key benefit of biomimicry is that it can help to reduce the need fo r resource - intensive materials and processes. For example, using bio - inspired materials like mycelium and spider silk can help to reduce the environmental impact of traditional building materials, such as concrete and steel. SimilarlyI using biomimicry to develop more efficient manufacturing processes can help to reduce energy consumption and waste. (Infinite Cooling | Cooling Tower tater Capturing | United States, n.d.) Another advantage of biomimicry is that it can help to improve the performance and func tionality of products. For exampleI using biomimicry to develop new types of adhesives and coatings can improve their strength and durabilityI while using bio - inspired designs can help to make products more energy efficient and user - friendly. (BIOHM | the Future of Home | iondonI n.d.) In light of the numerous benefits of biomimicryI it is imperative for both designers and decision - makers to support and promote its usage as a means of providing sustainable solutions for the future. R. Conclusion In conclusi onI biomimicry is becoming a crucial element in providing sustainable solutions for industrial design. By examining and replicating the problem - solving techniques of nature, designers are able to create products and processes that are more efficientI effec tiveI and environmentally friendly. (Biomimicry InstituteI that is BiomimicryI n.dF lne of the primary advantages of biomimicry is its ability to reduce resource consumption. Using bio - inspired materials such as mycelium (BIOHM | the cuture of 
Home | iondonI n.d.) and spider silk can greatly minimize the environmental footprint of conventional building materials like concrete and steel. (Spintex | Silk ReimaginedI n.d.) SimilarlyI incorporating biomimicry into manufacturing processes can lead to decrea sed energy use and waste generation. AdditionallyI biomimicry can enhance the performance and functionality of products. Adopting biomimicry to create innovative adhesives and coatings, for instanceI can improve their strength and durability. (Mussel molym ers, n.d.F SimilarlyI incorporating bio - inspired designs into products can increase their energy efficiency and user - friendliness. OverallI the use of biomimicry in industrial design has the potential to significantly improve the sustainability of products and processes. It is important for designers and policymakers to continue to invest in and promote the use of biomimicry as a means of providing more sustainable solutions for the future. S. Aknowledgment This study was completed as part of the fkaa4RR Re search Trends course at Arkın University of Creative Arts and DesignI Department of fndustrial DesignI under the invaluable guidance of Asst. mrof. Dr. Nazgol Hafizi. f extend my sincere thanks for the enriching lectures throughout the semester and support in finalizing the study. T. References 1. Aquammodate tater purification – Aquammodate tater purification . (n.d.). https://www.aquammodate.com/ 2. AzizI M. S., & bl sherifI A. Y. (201S). Biomimicry as an approach for bio - inspired structure with the aid of computation. Alexandria bngineering Journal I RR (1), 707 – T14. https://doi.org/10.101S/j.aej.201R.10.01R 3. BflHM | The Future lf Home | iondon . (n.d.). BflHM #FutureOfHome. https://www.biohm.co.uk/
4. Cellulose thite migments from fmpossible Materials | | Atoa (jaF . (n.d.). Atoa (Ja). https://awrd.com/creatives/detail/11T9303R 5. Dental . (n.d.). Mussel molym ers. https://www.musselpolymers.com/dental.html 6. Du misani, J. A. (200S). Sustainable development – historical roots of the concept. bnvironmental Sciences I 3 (2), 83 – 9S. https://doi.org/10.1080/1RS93430S00S88831 7. burope Sustainable aevelopment Report O0O1 . ( n.d.). Sustainable Development Report. https://www.sdgindex.org/reports/europe - sustainable - development - report - O0O1/ 8. Grow lyster Reefs. (20OOI June 1S). Grow lyster Reefs . Grow Oyster Reefs » Restoring Coastal bcologies. https://www.growoysterreefs.com/ 9. Gup taI S., DangayachI d., & SinghI A. h. (201R). Key Determinants of Sustainable mroduct aesign and Manufacturing. mrocedia CIRP I OS I 99 – 10O. https://doi.org/10.101S/j.procir.2014.0T.1SS 10. Hafizi, N., & harimnezhadI M. (20O1). Biomimetic Architecture Towards Bi o Inspired Adaptive bnvelopes: In Case of mlant Inspired Concept deneration. International Journal of Built bnvironment and Sustainability I 9 (1), 1 – 10. https://doi.org/10.11113/ijbes.v9.n1.8O0 11. IlievaI i., UrsanoI I.I TraistaI i., HoffmannI B., & DahyI H. ( O0OO). Biomimicry as a Sustainable Design Methodology — Introducing the ‘Biomimicry for Sustainability’ Framework. Biomimetics I T (2), 3T. https://doi.org/10.3390/biomimetics70O003T
12. Impossible mater ials . (n.d.). Impossible Materials. https://impossible - materials.jimdosite.com/ 13. Impulse, S. (n.d.). Bio - solution for Contaminated Soils - Solar Impulse bfficient Solution . https://solarimpulse.com/solutions - explorer/bio - solution - for - contaminated - soils 14. Infi nite Cooling | Cooling Tower tater Capturing | United States . (n.d.). Infinite - cooling. https://www.infinite - cooling.com/ 15. Infinite Cooling | James Dyson Award . (n.d.). James Dyson Award. https://www.jamesdysonaward.org/en - US/O018/project/infinite - cooling/ 16. iibGuides: Sustainable mroduct Design: Sustainable Design mrinciples . (n.d.). https://guides.library.illinois.edu/c.php?g=34TST0&p=O344S0S#:~:text=UseBO0m anufacturingBO0processes%20andBO0produce,products%O0for%O0reuseBO0a ndBO0recycling. 17. McConnellI R. (20O1I December 1R). Content in the product design process — articulating our role . Medium. https://uxdesign.cc/content - in - the - design - process - articulating - our - role - 8a3d88OaRRR0 18. Mussel Polymers . (n.d.). Mussel Polymers. https://www.musselpolym ers.com/ 19. New fridium . (20OOI February O3). New fridium. https://newiridium.com/
20. NkanduI M. I.I & AlibabaI H. Z. (2018). Biomimicry as an Alternative Approach to Sustainability. Architecture Research I 8 (1), 1 – 11. http://www.sapub.org/global/showpaperpdf.aspx?doi=10.59O3/j.arch.O0180801.0 1 21. Novobiom | Bioremediation . (n.d.). Novobiom. https://www.novobiom.com/ 22. mroducts & Services | Renaissance Fiber . (n.d.). Renaissance Fibe r. https://www.renaissance - fiber.com/services 23. Renaissance fiber . (n.d.). Renaissance Fiber. https://www.renaissance - fiber.com/ 24. Spintex | Silk Reimagined . (n.d.). Spintex. https://www.spintex.co.uk/ 25. Spintex | Technology . (n.d.). Spintex. https://www.spintex .co.uk/technology 26. THb 1T dOAiS | Sustainable Development . (n.d.). https://sdgs.un.org/goals 27. The 19T3 energy crisis sparked the idea for the fbA. that have we learned since then? (20O3I January 1S). torld bconomic Forum. https://www.weforum.org/agenda/20OO/ 03/iea - 1970s - energy - crisis/ 28. The Top 10 Biomimicry Examples and fnnovations of O0O1 . (n.d.). https://www.learnbiomimicry.com/blog/top - 10 - biomimicry - examples - O0O1 29. that Is Biomimicry? – . (20OOI December 20). Biomimicry fnstitute. https://biomimicry.org/what - is - biomimicry/ 30. that is sustainability? (n.d.). Https://tww.Mcgill.ca/Sustainability/Files/Sustainability/that - Is - Sustainability .Pdf
31. clo fNCREASbD SrSTAINABfifTY. Sustainable Building Conference (SB0TFI AucklandI New Zealand .