N A pqAqb-lc-qeb-Aoq obsfbt lN fNallo Afo mliirqflN ANa qeb N mlqbNqfAi lc BflqbCeNlildfbp clo fNallo Afo mrofcfCAqflN O gavier donzłlez-MartínaIbI Norbertus hraakmanbIc
bI oaquel iebreroaIbI oaúl P MuñozaIbG. Q a aepartment of Chemical bngineering and bnvironmental qechnologyI rniversity of R salladolidI ar. Mergelina s/n.I salladolid QTMNNI ppain S b 
. cull postal address: 
; 
. 
-VM B of their life in NU increasing air-tight buildings. More than R million people die every year prematurely from NV illnesses attributable to poor indoor air qualityI which also causes multi-millionaire losses due OM 
 ON fndoor air pollutants include particulate matterI biological pollutants and over QMM different OO chemical organic and inorganic compoundsI whose concentrations are governed by several OP outdoor and indoor factors. mrevention of pollutant is not always technically feasibleI so the OQ 
implementation of cost-effective active abatement units is required. rp to date no single OR physical-chemical technology is capable of coping with all indoor air pollutants in a cost-OS 
O effective manner. qhis problem requires the use of sequential technology configurations at the OT expenses of superior capital and operating costs. fn additionI the performance of conventional OU physical-chemical technologies is still limited by the low concentrationsI the diversity and the OV variability of pollutants in indoor environments. fn this contextI biotechnologies have emerged PM as a cost-effective and sustainable platform capable of coping with these limitations based on PN the biocatalytic action of plantsI bacteriaI fungi and microalgae. fndeedI biological-based PO purification systems can improve the energy efficiency of buildingsI while providing additional PP aesthetic and psychological benefits. qhis review critically assessed the state-of-the-art of the PQ indoor air pollution problem and prevention strategiesI along with the recent advances in PR physical-chemical and biological technologies for indoor pollutants abatement. PS PT heywords: air pollutant; biotechnology; indoor air quality; prevention strategy; physical-PU chemical technology; volatile organic compound. PV QM eighlights: QN x A state-of-the-art review on the global problem of poor indoor air quality QO x qypologyI sources and health risks of the most common indoor pollutants are revised QP x Measures for prevention and abatement of indoor pollutants are carefully examined QQ x bvaluation of the performance of traditional physical-chemical methods QR x Assessment of innovative and sustainable systems based on biotechnologies QS 
P Abbreviation list QT AC – Activated carbon QU Bc – Biofilter QV Bqc – Biotrickling filter RM Bqbu – BenzeneI tolueneI ethylbenzene and xylene RN CAao - Clean Air aelivery oate RO aMp – aimethyl sulfide RP bBoq – bmpty bed residence time RQ bmA – bnvironmental mrotection Agency RR 
Q mM – marticulate matter TP mm - molypropylene TQ mpmv – solumetric parts-per-million TR mr - molyurethane TS msC – molyvinylchloride TT obACe – oegistrationI bvaluation and Authorization of Chemicals system TU oe – oelative humidity TV rdl – oeduced graphene oxide UM qmmB – qwo-liquid phase partitioning bioreactor UN qslC – qotal volatile organic compounds UO rs – rltraviolet radiation UP sfCs – solatile inorganic compounds UQ sis – sisible radiation UR slCs – solatile organic compounds US tel – torld eealth lrganization UT wfc – weolitic imidazole framework UU 
R N. qhe indoor air quality problem UV Air pollution and human exposure to low-quality air is nowadays the most critical VM environmental threat to public health worldwide according to the torld eealth lrganization VN EtelF Etorld eealth lrganizationI OMNSF. oecent reports have indicated thatI at a global VO scaleI N out of NM deaths are attributable to air pollution. fndeedI air pollution alone caused VP approximately R.R million deaths in OMNP in the world Etorld Bank and fnstitute for eealth VQ Metrics and bvaluationI OMNSF. At a buropean levelI recently updated data have ascribed more VR than RMMIMMM premature deaths in OMNS to long-term exposure to polluted airI from which VS QNOIMMM corresponded to particulate matter EmMFI TNIMMM to NlOI and NRIMMM to lP Eburopean VT bnvironmental AgencyI OMNVF. qhese effects will be even more critical due to the continuous VU growth of major cities. fndeedI about VMB of the population worldwide lives in urban areas VV exposed to air quality levels that exceed the tel guidelines Etorld eealth lrganizationI NMM OMNSFI which are typically based on mM pollution. NMN qhe latest studies on human exposure to indoor pollution revealed that indoor environments NMO could be at least twice as polluted as outdoor environments Eburopean ComissionI OMMPF. NMP fndeedI the air in an urban street with average traffic might actually be cleaner than the air in a NMQ living room. qraditionallyI indoor air pollution has received significantly less attention than NMR outdoor air pollutionI especially in highly industrialized or dense traffic areas. eoweverI the NMS threats posed by a long-term exposure to indoor air pollution have become more apparent in NMT recent years Eburopean bnvironment AgencyI OMNPF as buildings are progressively sealed NMU against the outside environment to obtain heating and cooling energy cost savings. Many NMV buildings rely entirely on mechanical ventilation to recirculate indoor air with a greatly reduced NNM outdoor air dilution levelI leading to the accumulation of indoor pollutants. A recent NNN commission report estimated that nearly P billion people worldwide are daily exposed to poor NNO indoor air quality EfAnF caused by the use of solid fuels for cookingI heating and lighting. qhis NNP report concluded that household air pollution is a major contributor to global figures for NNQ 
S morbidity and mortalityI with major effects on respiratory and cardiovascular systems Eooyal NNR College of mhysiciansI OMNSF. AdditionallyI the report highlighted the significant contribution NNS of poor fAn to the total number of premature deaths. At a global levelI the tel estimated that NNT each year Q.P million people die prematurely from illnesses attributable to indoor air pollution NNU Etorld eealth lrganizationI OMNQFI almost all in low and middle income countriesI with NNV pollutants produced by indoor combustion processesI such as cooking or heatingI as the main NOM cause of deficient fAn. MoreoverI the prevalence of health problems related with fAn such as NON sick building syndromeI building related illness or multiple chemical sensitivity has been NOO extensively reported EBurgeI OMMQF. Although the levels of indoor air pollutants and their NOP associated symptoms may decrease in new or recently renovated buildings during the first half NOQ yearI poor fAn and its associated symptoms have been reported over years EfNpeqI OMNRF. NOR fn this contextI human exposure to indoor air EhousesI workplacesI public buildings or means NOS of transportF exceeds UM B in developed countries and UR-VM B in burope Eburopean NOT ComissionI OMMPF Ecigure NF. iikewiseI the National euman Activity mattern purvey in the rp NOU revealed that an adult spends USB of his time indoorsI to which a further SB must be added as NOV time spent inside vehicles or public transport (Marć et al., 2018). qhere has been a significant NPM global shift in the economy from the manufacturing sector towards the service and knowledge-NPN based sectorsI which operate in indoor office environments EAl eorr et al.I OMNSF. moor fAn has NPO been classified as a priority problem affecting children’s healthI while it is considered as one of NPP the largest national environmental threats by the rp-bmA Eduieysse et al.I OMMUF. NPQ Besides being responsible for many respiratory illnessesI allergies and even cancerous diseasesI NPR poor fAn has also a noteworthy economic impact since it damages valuable objects from NPS librariesI archives or museumsI and may reduce employee’s productivity in working places by NPT NM-NR B ECincinelli et al.I OMNSF Ecigure NF. qhe costs associated to air pollution in the tel NPU buropean oegionI including exposure to both outdoor and indoor airI amounted to N.QPNA NPV trillions in OMNMI from which QO.VA billion corresponded to ppain Etel oegional lffice for NQM 
T buropeI OMNRF. ff only fAn is considered Ein terms of mortalityI loss of productivityI and NQN illnesses and sick leavesFI recent studies have calculated annual expenses of up to OMIMMM NQO million € in crance EANpbp et al.I OMNQF. NQP NQQ NQR cigure N. hey data of the indoor air quality problem. NQS NQT 
U fn OMNMI the tel published the first specific fAn guidelines Etorld eealth lrganization and NQU tel oegional lffice for buropeI OMNMFI which have been since adopted by other organizations NQV in several countries. thereas these guidelines represented the first attempt to establish a general NRM fAn standardI only a few priority indoor air pollutants with known adverse health effects were NRN included. fndeedI an exhaustive quantitative regulation comprising all physicalI chemicalI NRO biological and particulate exposures is rather challenging due to the inherent complexity of NRP indoor air pollution and the lack of information concerning the long-term health effects of each NRQ pollutant. fn this contextI indoor air pollutants include particulate matterI biological pollutants NRR EallergensI bacteriaI moldI fungiI sporesI etc.FI physical agents EtemperatureI electromagnetic NRS fieldsF and over QMM different chemical compoundsI mainly volatile organic and inorganic NRT compounds EslCs and sfCsI respectivelyF. More recentlyI organic emerging compounds NRU emitted from plasticsI pharmaceuticals or personal care products have been detected in indoor NRV environments. fn addition to the wide spectrum of indoor pollutantsI their occurrence and NSM concentration depend on many factors such as outdoors air qualityI the socio-economic NSN development of the countryI type of activitiesI occupancyI ambient conditionsI season of the NSO yearI etc. MoreoverI pollutant sources and emission rates rapidly change over time Eiuengas et NSP al. OMNRF: endogenous sources include permanent Ebuilding materialsI adhesivesI paintsI NSQ varnishesI etc.F and occasional sources EfurnitureI cleaning and disinfection productsI cookingI NSR personal care productsI human metabolismI etc.FI while outdoor pollutants intrusion clearly NSS depends on human activities Eroad trafficI industryI etc.F. AdditionallyI secondary pollutants NST might be produced by indoor gas-phase reactions from other compounds present in indoor air NSU Eeubbard et al.I OMMR; pCeboI OMMTF. NSV rnfortunatelyI there is limited information over fAn due to the great number of pollutants and NTM sources and their variability. pignificant efforts must be undertaken in order to better understand NTN the effects of indoor air pollutants on human health and to design ad-hoc regulations to protect NTO human health Eooyal College of mhysiciansI OMNSF. A better understanding of the type and NTP 
V concentration of indoor air pollutants will facilitate the design of effective control strategies NTQ both in terms of prevention and active abatement. pince prevention must be considered as the NTR first step for improving fAnI actions have been recently implemented to reduce or eliminate NTS certain pollutant sources. cor instanceI smoking in workplaces and most public places is NTT prohibited in burope and many countries in the worldI and the use of harmful construction NTU materials such as asbestos or products containing hazardous components like halogenated NTV pesticides is widely restricted Ebr CouncilI OMMUF. eoweverI pollution control at source is only NUM possible when sources are knownI while new substances are constantly detected and classified NUN as hazardous. qhereforeI prevention or minimization of indoor pollutant emissions is commonly NUO insufficientI technically non-viableI or economically unfeasible Eduieysse et al. OMMUI iuengas NUP et al. OMNRF. MoreoverI according to the airective OMNM/PN/br Eburopean marliamentI OMNMFI NUQ br Member ptates have committed to build nearly zero energy buildings by the end of OMOMI NUR while enhancing energy performance during major renovations of existing buildings or NUS retrofitting of building elements. New designs devoted to effective energy savings involve NUT airtightI well-insulated and sealed constructionsI which substantially reduces natural NUU ventilation. qhis increase in building air tightness will cause a severe impact on the levels of NUV gas and particulate indoor air pollutantsI increasing their concentration as a result of the reduced NVM ventilation rates EBroderick et al. OMNTF. fn this context of potential conflict between energy NVN efficiency measures and enforcement of fAn standardsI the development and optimization of NVO versatile technologies for in-situ indoor air purification is increasingly needed. NVP NVQ O. Main pollutants and sources NVR qhe most important indoor air pollutants investigated include particulate matterI volatile NVS inorganic compounds and volatile organic compounds. marticulate matter is typically classified NVT as a function of its sizeI but the most reported value corresponds to the concentration of particles NVU with a mean diameter lower than O.R micrometers EmMO.RF. Carbon dioxide EClOFI carbon NVV 
NM monoxide EClFI nitrogen oxides ENlxF and ozone ElPF rank among the most studied inorganic OMM compounds. slCs include a wide group of organic gas pollutants with a low boiling point OMN Eranging from RM/NMMºC to OQM/OSMºCF and low vapor pressure ubiquitous in indoor OMO environments Eiuengas et al.I OMNRF. qhis group is continuously growing as new materials are OMP being used in construction and interior design Ecigure OF. aespite the large number of pollutants OMQ present in indoor environmentsI only a few of them are typically measured and used as OMR surrogates in order to simplify data acquisition. qhese surrogate compounds are selected based OMS on their human risk potential or as representative of a more extended group of compounds with OMT similar behaviour. pampling sites where environmental tobacco smoke EbqpF is present are OMU typically omitted in most monitoring projects since bqp is so dominant over other indoor OMV contaminant sources that results are not reliable Egantunen et al.I OMNNF. ONM oesearch projects investigating indoor air pollution are mainly focused on public and private ONN buildings. qhese environments are very different in terms of type of pollutants and ONO concentration ranges. mublic indoor environments comprise office buildingsI schoolsI shopping ONP centersI librariesI etc.I while private indoor spaces involve apartment buildings or detached ONQ dwellings. pome studies have investigated the levels of pollutants before and after building ONR renovationI remodeling or refurbishmentI which entailed the implementation of new energy-ONS saving concepts and therefore a higher air tightness and accumulation of indoor pollutants. qhe ONT typical sources Ecigure OFI health risks and common concentrations of the most relevant indoor ONU pollutants are here discussed. qhese pollutantsI including mMI sfCs EClI NlxI lPF and slCs ONV Ebenzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylenes, naphthalene, formaldehyde, trichloroethylene, α-OOM pineneI limoneneFI have been selected based on their occurrence in indoor spaces or their OON concerns in terms of human health Eqable NF. OOO 
NN Compound CAp number Molecular weight Eg/molF Boiling point EºC at N atmF sapor pressure Emmeg at ORºCF tater solubility Emg/i at ORºCF bnvironmental risksa eenry constant Emol/mP·maF Cl SPM - MU - M OU.M - NVN.T >PR atm OS.U at OMºC V.SQb - MS Nl O NMNMO - QQ - M QS.M ON.M TOM oeacts N.OMb - MQ l P NMMOU - NR - S QU.M - NNN.T >N atm RTM at OMºC eQMM; eQNM N.NMb - MQ Benzene TN - QP - O TU.N TU.U NMN VQM.M eQNO; mOTP N.TMb - MP qoluene NMU - UU - P VO.N NNM.S OT.T POM.M eQNO N.RMb - MP bthylbenzene NMM - QN - Q NMS.O NPS.O V.ON NNM.M eQNO N.PMb - MP o-xylene VR-QT-S NMS.O NQR.V R.VV NOM.M eQNO; mOTP O.MUb-MP m - xylene NMU - PU - P NMS.O NQM.S T.SN VV.M eQNO; mOTP N.PTb - MP p - xylene NMS - QO - P NMS.O NPV.S T.VQ NMM.M eQNO N.QUb - MP Naphthalene VN - OM - P NOU.O OON.R M.NRV NQM.M eQMM; eQNM O.OMb - MO cormaldehyde RM - MM - M PM.M - NV.R PQSM 1.98∙10 R P.OMbHMN qCb TV - MN - S NPN.Q UT.O TO.Q PVM.M eQNO; mOTP V.RMb - MQ α - pinene UM - RS - U NPS.O NRT.V P.R U.V eQNN O.NOb - MQ iimonene NPU - US - P NPS.O NTR.Q N.RQ P.Q eQMM; eQNM; mOTP S.OTb - MQ OOP aCode: eQMM: very toxic to aquatic life; eQNM: very toxic to aquatic life with long lasting effects; eQNN: toxic to aquatic life with long lasting effects; OOQ eQNO: harmful to aquatic life with long lasting effects; mOTP: avoid release to the environment OOR qable N. mhysical/chemical properties of the most relevant indoor air pollutants. OOS 
NO OOT cigure O. Main sources of pollutants at homes. OOU 
NP marticulate matter consists of solid particles suspended in air able to enter the respiratory tractI OOV which mainly occurs when particle size is below O.R micrometers. Natural sources include OPM suspended dust from sand or sea saltI pollen or fire ashI while anthropogenic sources are OPN associated to combustion processesI industryI agriculture and transportation. mM can also be OPO originated by reactions between ozone and some slCs Ee.g. terpenesF ECarazo cernłndez et OPP al.I OMNP; buropean bnvironment AgencyI OMNT; ooyal College of mhysiciansI OMNS; pCeboI OPQ OMMT; rp bnvironmental mrotection AgencyI NVVRF. cibersI such as fiber glass and asbestosI OPR can also be included in this group ECarazo cernłndez et al.I OMNP; ieungI OMNR; ooyal College OPS of mhysiciansI OMNSF. lutdoor mM enters indoor environments through ventilationI while indoor OPT sources include combustion-based appliances like ovensI heaters or stovesI and also tobacco OPU smoke and fireplaces ECarazo cernłndez et al.I OMNP; buropean bnvironment AgencyI OMNT; OPV ooyal College of mhysiciansI OMNS; pCeboI OMMTF. then biomass is used as a fuelI indoor OQM levels of mM can exceed those of polluted cities. iong-term exposure to particulate matter can OQN provoke conditions from several respiratory and cardiovascular problems such as eyeI noseI OQO throat and bronchial irritation and asthma to fibrosisI anthracosis and lung cancer ECarazo OQP cernłndez et al.I OMNP; gantunen et al.I OMNN; ieungI OMNR; pCeboI OMMT; rp bnvironmental OQQ mrotection AgencyI NVVRF. hitchens and bedrooms may exhibit mMO.R concentrations in the OQR range of OR-NROS and NP-27 μg/mPI while concentrations of NM-QQ and P-23 μg/mP have been OQS recorded in offices and schoolsI respectively. phopping complexes also present high OQT concentrations of mMO.R ETQ-164 μg/mPF EArmendłriz-Arnez et al.I OMNM; Barmparesos et al.I OQU OMNU; Broderick et al.I OMNT; Canha et al.I OMNT; aatta et al.I OMNT; Mandin et al.I OMNT; mokhrel OQV et al.I OMNR; pidhu et al.I OMNT; pingh et al.I OMNS; sasile et al.I OMNS; vip et al.I OMNTF. ORM Carbon monoxide is a colorlessI odorlessI tastelessI non-irritant toxic gas emitted as a result of ORN incomplete combustion processes. Cl is usually produced from fossil fuels in power ORO generationI road transportation and heating and cooking devices. eoweverI this pollutant is also ORP emitted by natural sourcesI accounting for one third of the total emissions. qhe main indoor ORQ 
NQ sources of Cl are tobacco smokeI defective cooking and heating devicesI fireplaces and vehicle ORR gases from attached garages. lutdoor air exchange in dense traffic and parking areas or highly ORS industrialized districts also mediates the intrusion of Cl in indoor environments ECarazo ORT cernłndez et al.I OMNP; hotzias et al.I OMMR; ieungI OMNR; ooyal College of mhysiciansI OMNS; ORU pingh et al.I OMNS; rp bnvironmental mrotection AgencyI NVVR; torld eealth lrganization ORV and tel oegional lffice for buropeI OMNMF. fnhalation is the main entrance to human body OSM of ClI which is able to bind reversibly to hemoglobin with an affinity OMM-ORM times higher OSN than oxygen. Cl toxic effects are thus based on the interference with lO transportation through OSO the human body resulting in tissue hypoxia. qhe extent of health damage depends on the OSP concentration and duration of exposureI and include cardiovascularI respiratory and OSQ neurological problems. Cl can even cause death under high acute exposure E>NMMM ppmvF or OSR long-term exposure Ehotzias et al.I OMMR; ieungI OMNR; rp bnvironmental mrotection AgencyI OSS NVVR; torld eealth lrganization and tel oegional lffice for buropeI OMNMF. Concentrations OST of M.R-NT ppmvI M.V-P.U ppmv and up to U.R ppmv have been recorded in kitchensI bedrooms and OSU shopping areasI respectively EBroderick et al.I OMNT; Canha et al.I OMNT; pidhu et al.I OMNT; OSV pingh et al.I OMNS; sasile et al.I OMNS; vamamoto et al.I OMNQ; vip et al.I OMNT; wielinska et al.I OTM OMNOF. OTN Nitrogen monoxide ENlF and nitrogen dioxide ENlOF are the most common and important OTO nitrogen oxides. qhese pollutants are generated by combination of oxygen and nitrogen during OTP combustion in power generation industriesI transportation and heating systems. Nl is produced OTQ in a larger extent and is further oxidized to NlO in the presence of oxygenI ozone or slCs OTR Eburopean bnvironment AgencyI OMNT; torld eealth lrganization and tel oegional lffice OTS for buropeI OMNMF. qhe most frequent indoor sources of Nlx are gas appliances like stovesI OTT ovens or water heaters. bqp and fireplaces can also contribute to Nlx emissions ECarazo OTU cernłndez et al.I OMNP; hotzias et al.I OMMR; ieungI OMNR; iuengas et al.I OMNR; ooyal College OTV of mhysiciansI OMNS; pingh et al.I OMNS; rp bnvironmental mrotection AgencyI NVVR; torld OUM 
NR eealth lrganization and tel oegional lffice for buropeI OMNMF. fnfiltration from outdoor air OUN strongly influences indoor levelsI in particular within short distance from roadways or high-OUO density industrial areas. fnhaled NlO is converted to nitric acid in the lungsI with the associate OUP damage to cells and to the immune system. fnhalation can cause respiratory malfunctioning OUQ when other pathologies are previously present Elimit for protection of asthmatic of 200 μg/mP OUR N-h average; ≈2000 μg/mP impact normal individualsF. NlO can cause also eye irritation by OUS direct contact ECarazo cernłndez et al.I OMNP; hotzias et al.I OMMR; ieungI OMNR; rp OUT bnvironmental mrotection AgencyI NVVR; torld eealth lrganization and tel oegional OUU lffice for buropeI OMNMF. Concentrations of R-17 μg/mPI NS-18 μg/mP and up to 30 μg/mP have OUV been measured in housesI offices and shopping areasI respectively EBroderick et al.I OMNT; OVM ianger et al.I OMNR; Mandin et al.I OMNT; mrasauskas et al.I OMNS; pingh et al.I OMNS; sasile et OVN al.I OMNSF. OVO Benzene is an organic volatile compound with a characteristic aromatic odor and widely used OVP in industry as a solvent and in the synthesis of several plasticsI resins and pharmaceuticals. OVQ lutdoor air intrusion contributes to indoor levelsI with benzene originated by traffic road and OVR industrial activity Eburopean bnvironment AgencyI OMNT; gantunen et al.I NVVU; torld eealth OVS lrganization and tel oegional lffice for buropeI OMNMF. fndoor sources of benzene include OVT 
NS ieungI OMNR; torld eealth lrganization and tel oegional lffice for buropeI OMNMF. No PMT safe level of exposure is recommended. qhe highest level of benzene has been recorded in PMU shopping areas EO.R-48 μg/mPF followed by offices EN.Q-5.5 μg/mPFI homes EM.T-4.4 μg/mPF and PMV schools EM.R-3 μg/mPF EBroderick et al.I OMNT; aodson et al.I OMMU; au et al.I OMNR; bdwards et PNM al.I OMMN; deiss et al.I OMNN; hotzias et al.I OMMV; ianger et al.I OMNR; oösch et al.I OMNQ; pingh PNN et al.I OMNS; uu et al.I OMNS; wielinska et al.I OMNOF. PNO qoluene is also an aromatic compound used in several industrial processes and emitted also by PNP power generation industries and traffic ECampagnolo et al.I OMNT; gantunen et al.I NVVU; hotzias PNQ et al.I OMMR; ieungI OMNR; ooyal College of mhysiciansI OMNSF. qolueneI present in gasolineI PNR paintsI resinsI adhesivesI cosmetics and coatingsI is one of the most common indoor air PNS pollutants and the most abundant among Bqbu EbenzeneI tolueneI ethylbenzene and xyleneF. PNT fndoor sources are infiltration from outdoor airI tobacco smokeI combustion devices and a PNU variety of household products ECarazo cernłndez et al.I OMNP; gantunen et al.I NVVU; hotzias et PNV al.I OMMR; ooyal College of mhysiciansI OMNS; pCeboI OMMT; pingh et al.I OMNSF. qoluene is not POM a confirmed carcinogenic substanceI and therefore no long-term health effects have been PON studied yet. bxposure to toluene increases risks of developing asthma and other respiratory POO conditionsI while short and long-term exposure can affect central nervous system Ehotzias et POP al.I OMMRF. phopping complexes present the highest toluene concentrations ENR-164 μg/mPFI POQ followed by offices ES-32 μg/mPF and homes EP-20 μg/mPF. qhe presence of toluene in schools POR is marginal (1.8 μg/mPF. Concentrations are typically higher in new or recently renovated POS buildings as a result of the new installed materials EBroderick et al.I OMNT; aodson et al.I OMMU; POT au et al.I OMNR; bdwards et al.I OMMN; deiss et al.I OMNN; ianger et al.I OMNR; Mandin et al.I POU OMNT; oösch et al.I OMNQ; pingh et al.I OMNS; uu et al.I OMNS; whong et al.I OMNT; wielinska et al.I POV OMNOF. PPM bthylbenzene is a colorless liquid compound at ambient temperatureI with a strong gasoline-PPN like scent. pources of pollution include plasticsI paintsI adhesives and other products where PPO 
NT ethylbenzene is used as a solvent during manufacturing. bthylbenzene is also emitted during PPP combustion processes such as traffic Eethylbenzene is included in gasolinesFI heating devices PPQ and cooking ECampagnolo et al.I OMNT; gantunen et al.I NVVU; ieungI OMNR; pingh et al.I OMNSF. PPR Acute effects at relatively high concentrations include eye and throat irritation and dizziness. PPS No long-term effects have been described yet in humans. bthylbenzene has been classified as a PPT potential human carcinogen by the fnternational Agency for Cancer oesearch EAqpaoI OMMTF. PPU Concentrations of ethylbenzene up to 16 μg/mP have been detected in offices and shopping PPV complexes. ln the other handI homes and schools exhibit maximum concentrations of U and PQM 0.2 μg/mPI respectively EBroderick et al. OMNT; aodson et al. OMMU; bdwards et al. OMMN; oösch PQN et al. OMNQ; pingh et al. OMNS; uu et al. OMNS; whong et al. OMNT; wielinska et al. OMNOF. PQO uylene is a colorless liquid at room temperature with an aromatic odor present as three isomers: PQP orthoI meta and para Eo-I m- and p-I respectivelyF. uylene is used as a solvent in industry and PQQ as an additive in gasoline. fndoor sources of xylenes include paintsI adhesivesI dyesI polymersI PQR cleaning products and pharmaceuticals. lutdoor air is also a source of indoor pollution if dense PQS traffic or industrial facilities using xylene are nearby ECampagnolo et al.I OMNT; gantunen et al.I PQT NVVU; hotzias et al.I OMMR; ieungI OMNR; pCeboI OMMT; pingh et al.I OMNSF. An acute exposure PQU to xylene can cause eye and throat irritationI headache and nausea. iong-term exposure is PQV associated with problems in the respiratoryI gastrointestinal and central nervous systemsI lungsI PRM kidneyI heart and reproductive system. uylene is a suspected carcinogenic chemicalI associated PRN with an increased risk of leukemiaI non-eodgkin’s lymphoma and colon/rectum cancer PRO Ehotzias et al.I OMMRF. Shopping areas, with levels ranging from 1.3 to 74 μg/mPI and officesI PRP with levels of 2.2 to 16 μg/mPI rank among the most polluted sites. Maximum xylene PRQ concentrations of 3.1 and 0.3 μg/mP have been measured at homes and schools EBroderick et al. PRR OMNT; aodson et al. OMMU; bdwards et al. OMMN; deiss et al. OMNN; ianger et al. OMNR; Mandin PRS et al. OMNT; pingh et al. OMNS; sasile et al. OMNS; uu et al. OMNS; whong et al. OMNT; wielinska et PRT al. OMNOF. PRU 
NU Naphthalene is a white crystalline solid at ambient temperatureI with a characteristic aromatic PRV odor EmothballsFI widely used as a raw material in the chemical industry. qhe main emission PSM source is traffic as a result of the inherent presence of naphthalene in gasoline and diesel. fndoor PSN sources include tobacco smokeI defective combustion devicesI herbicidesI rubber materials and PSO insect repellents Eusually contaminating clothesF Ehotzias et al.I OMMR; ooyal College of PSP mhysiciansI OMNS; torld eealth lrganization and tel oegional lffice for buropeI OMNMF. PSQ lutdoor air is a mayor source in high-traffic and industrial areas. fnhalation is the principal PSR naphthalene intake mechanism in humansI although accidental ingestions of mothballs have PSS been reported. Acute naphthalene intoxication can induce hemolytic anemia and cataracts. No PST long-term adverse health effects or evidence of human carcinogenicity or genotoxicity have PSU been reported Ehotzias et al.I OMMR; torld eealth lrganization and tel oegional lffice for PSV buropeI OMNMF. Naphthalene concentrations ranging from 3 to 26 μg/mP have been recorded at PTM homes Eau et al. OMNR; uu et al. OMNS; whong et al. OMNTF. PTN cormaldehyde EeCelF is a colorlessI odorousI highly reactive gas emitted during incomplete PTO reaction of hydrocarbons in industriesI traffic and other processes. cormaldehyde is also PTP produced by oxidation of other slCs with ozone or radiation ECampagnolo et al.I OMNT; hotzias PTQ et al.I OMMR; rp bnvironmental mrotection AgencyI NVVR; torld eealth lrganization and tel PTR oegional lffice for buropeI OMNMF. qhis chemical is widely used in resinsI gluesI paintsI paper PTS productsI cosmeticsI electronic equipmentI cleaning agents or fabrics. cormaldehyde is present PTT in construction materials such as insulation foams of wooden-based materials employed in PTU floorings or furniture. eoweverI emissions from these materials Ee.g. plywoodI particleboard or PTV fiberboardF usually decay within several weeks ECarazo cernłndez et al.I OMNP; gantunen et al.I PUM NVVU; hotzias et al.I OMMR; ooyal College of mhysiciansI OMNS; torld eealth lrganization and PUN tel oegional lffice for buropeI OMNMF. cormaldehyde is rapidly absorbed by the respiratory PUO or gastrointestinal system. Acute exposure effects include odorI irritationI headache and PUP eczema. cormaldehyde is a known carcinogenic and genotoxic chemicalI whose long-term PUQ 
NV exposure can originate nasopharyngeal cancer and myeloid leukemia Ehotzias et al.I OMMR; rp PUR bnvironmental mrotection AgencyI NVVR; torld eealth lrganization and tel oegional PUS lffice for buropeI OMNMF. qhe level of exposure in homesI offices and schools is comparable PUT ET.T-PMI U-NTI V-17 μg/mPF EBroderick et al.I OMNT; Canha et al.I OMNT; aodson et al.I OMMU; PUU deiss et al.I OMNN; hotzias et al.I OMMV; ianger et al.I OMNR; Mandin et al.I OMNT; mrasauskas et PUV al.I OMNS; whong et al.I OMNT; wielinska et al.I OMNOF. PVM qrichloroethylene EqCbF is a volatile chemical with sweet chloroform odorI widely produced PVN by the industryI and used as solvent and cleaning agent Evapor degreasing of metalsF. qCb can PVO be present in contaminated waters and soilsI which could indirectly contribute to indoor levels. PVP fndoor sources include products where qCb is used as solvents such as lubricantsI varnishesI PVQ paint removersI adhesives and typewriter correction fluids. qCb can be also present in some PVR bleach household products and other cleaning agents Egantunen et al.I NVVU; pingh et al.I OMNS; PVS torld eealth lrganization and tel oegional lffice for buropeI OMNMF. euman exposure to PVT this slC occurs by dermal absorptionI ingestion and inhalation. bxposure to qCb is often PVU intermittentI as the products that contain this pollutant are not constantly used. Acute exposure PVV to qCb affects the central nervous system at concentrations of ~OTM mg/mPI causing a reduced QMM sensorial capacity. qCb is a carcinogenic chemical under long-term exposureI and a chronic QMN exposure may cause liverI kidney and bile duct cancer and non-eodgkin’s lymphoma. QMO qhereforeI no safe threshold is recommended due to its carcinogenicity Etorld eealth QMP lrganization and tel oegional lffice for buropeI OMNMF. qCb concentrations ranging from QMQ 0.3 to 0.6 μg/mP are typically recorded at homes, and from 0.6 to 4.7 μg/mP in shopping QMR complexes Eaodson et al.I OMMU; bdwards et al.I OMMN; Mandin et al.I OMNT; pingh et al.I OMNS; QMS uu et al.I OMNSF. QMT Alpha-pinene is a colorless liquid with a strong pine scent. qhis terpene is naturally present in QMU plants and a common constituent of essential oils. minene is used as a solvent in some paints QMV and waterproof substancesI and can be found in perfumery productsI deodorizers and cleaning QNM 
OM products. minene emissions can also originate from wooden materials like furniture or flooringI QNN particularly those made from pine wood ECampagnolo et al.I OMNT; hotzias et al.I OMMR; iuengas QNO et al.I OMNR; ooyal College of mhysiciansI OMNSF. No significant pinene concentrations are found QNP outdoorsI except in forest areas. ln the other handI limited data of pinene health risks is QNQ available. thile acute exposure to high concentration can produce irritation and inflammationI QNR no chronic exposure risks have been reported yet. eealth risks might be expected when ozone QNS or other reactive radicals are presentI due to their high reactivity with pinene and other QNT unsaturated molecules Eeubbard et al.I OMMR; hotzias et al.I OMMR; ieungI OMNR; pCeboI OMMTF. QNU qhese reaction by-products would produce eye and upper airways irritation in a more extended QNV way than pinene itself. qhe largest pinene concentrations are found at homes ENN-32 μg/mPF and QOM libraries ENM-30 μg/mPFI while offices and schools exhibit concentrations up to S.P and N.R QON μg/mPI respectively Eaodson et al. OMMU; bdwards et al. OMMN; deiss et al. OMNN; ianger et al. QOO OMNR; Mandin et al. OMNT; oösch et al. OMNQ; uu et al. OMNS; whong et al. OMNTF. QOP iimonene is a natural terpene present as two isomers Ed- and l-FI which have citric and pine QOQ scentI respectively. iimonene is used in a wide variety of household products like cleaning QOR agentsI resinsI air freshenersI deodorantsI fragrances and shampoos ECampagnolo et al.I OMNT; QOS hotzias et al.I OMMR; iuengas et al.I OMNR; ooyal College of mhysiciansI OMNSF. qhis terpene is QOT also found in food as an additive due to its citric odor and flavor. iimonene intake occurs by QOU inhalation or ingestion. qhis pollutant has low acute toxicityI no symptoms further than eye or QOV skin irritation have been described. Chronic health effects for limonene have not been studiedI QPM and there is no evidence of carcinogenicity or genotoxicity. eeath risks are associated to QPN ambient reaction with ozone or reactive radicalsI which form byproducts such as aldehydesI QPO carboxylic acids and peroxidesI responsible of irritation and odor annoyance at low QPP concentrations Eeubbard et al.I OMMR; hotzias et al.I OMMR; ieungI OMNR; pCeboI OMMTF. QPQ Maximum concentrations of 32, 19 and 11 μg/mP have been recorded at homesI offices and QPR schoolsI respectively Eaodson et al.I OMMU; au et al.I OMNR; bdwards et al.I OMMN; deiss et al.I QPS 
ON OMNN; ianger et al.I OMNR; Mandin et al.I OMNT; oösch et al.I OMNQ; uu et al.I OMNS; whong et al.I QPT OMNTF. QPU QPV P. mrevention of indoor air pollutant emission QQM Among the different approaches to control indoor air qualityI prevention of pollutant formation QQN and emission rank first in terms of cost-effectiveness. peveral strategies to prevent the emission QQO and to decrease the concentration of gas pollutants in indoor environments have been proposed. QQP lverallI ventilation is the easiest measure to prevent the accumulation of indoor pollutants. QQQ fndoor pollutant concentrations typically decrease when increasing outdoor air exchange rate QQR unless outdoor pollutant concentrations are high Esuch as in areas with intense traffic or QQS industrial activitiesF. Mechanical ventilation systems introduce outdoor fresh air into the QQT buildingI which dilutes the concentration of indoor air pollutants. pome sources can be sealed QQU or removed by professionalsI like asbestos and other insulation fibers EChenari et al. OMNS; QQV hotzias et al. OMMR; ieung OMNR; iuengas et al. OMNRF. pmoking bans are also a very effective QRM measure since tobacco smoke is a source of multiple harmful chemicals in elevated QRN concentrations. qhe suppression of tobacco smoke in indoor places has resulted in consistent QRO fAn improvements Ehotzias et al.I OMMR; rp bnvironmental mrotection AgencyI NVVRF. cinallyI QRP an adequate control of the relative humidity and temperature is crucial to control the emissions QRQ of organic pollutants from indoor materials. fn this contextI air conditioning systems can control QRR the temperature and relative humidityI potentially using smart systems to automatize QRS ventilation or heating depending on the indoor atmosphere Ehigh ClO levelsI low temperaturesF QRT or occupants’ activities EChenari et al. OMNS; iuengas et al. OMNR; whou et al. OMNTF. QRU Many indoor air pollutantsI including mMI BqbuI Nlx or ClI are emitted during combustion QRV processes at homesI such as cooking or heating. fncreased ventilation rates and the reduction of QSM these combustion gases from cooking stovesI boilers or fireplaces prevent indoor pollutant QSN accumulation. Combustion devices in buildings must be regularly checked and maintained to QSO 
OP these liquid materials and minimizing storage periods to prevent leakages and emissions Erp QUU bnvironmental mrotection AgencyI NVVRF. QUV A wide variety of indoor pollutants originate from household and personal care products. pome QVM compounds like pinene and limonene are used as scents in cleaning productsI deodorantsI QVN cosmetics and even in food ECarazo cernłndez et al.I OMNP; hotzias et al.I OMMR; pCeboI OMMTF. QVO mollutant emissions can be partially avoided by using household products according to QVP manufacturer instructions Egood ventilationI no mixingI being aware of warningsF. fn additionI QVQ unused or nearly empty containers should not be stored for long periods and must be disposed QVR safely Ebnvironmental mrotection Agency NVVR; tei et al. OMNRF. QVS QVT Q. mhysical-chemical technologies for indoor air treatment QVU qhe intrusion or generation of indoor air pollutants cannot always be reduced or suppressed in QVV a cost-effective or technically feasible manner. fn these scenariosI active abatement units can RMM be installed in order to lower or eliminate the levels of indoor air contaminants. qraditionallyI RMN these devices consisted of physical-chemical technologies such as filters or ozonisers installed RMO as part of a central heating and ventilation system or operated as portable units Eiuengas et al.I RMP OMNRF. oeal-time sensing has been applied to these devices to optimize their performance. qhese RMQ sensors on-line monitor ambient conditions EtemperatureI humidityI concentrations of key RMR pollutantsF and activate the abatement units based on the need of the occupants and their RMS activitiesI with the subsequent energy savings Eduyot et al.I OMNU; humar et al.I OMNS; qran et RMT al.I OMNT; vang et al.I OMNVF. qodayI the market of physical/chemical technologies for indoor RMU air treatment is dominated by mechanical and electronic filtrationI adsorption and ozonation RMV Eqables O and PF.RNM 
OQ aesign parameters Air flow Em P /hF pingle pass efficiency EBF oeference Mechanical filtration Multilayer Eglass H synthetic fibersF non - woven filter (≈ MERV 16 filter) filter installed in HVAC system R.MUcm depth O.R m/s Black Carbon: UUB / rltrafine mM: USB mMEM.P-2.5 μm): 91% / PM(>2.5 μm): 88% Emolidori et al.I OMNPF MbosNS filter H NO gas - phase filters H particle postfilter aimensions: M.QNm O ×N.VRm EportableF NPSO Black Carbon: VMB / rltrafine mM: VQB mMEM.P - 2.5 μm): 92% / PM(>2.5μm): 75% Emolidori et al.I OMNPF msC/mr fibers EU w/wBF on filter paper support Membrane: NMM cmOI OM.TO g/mO N.VN / R.MN mM EM.P-0.5 μm): >99.5% Etang et al.I OMNPF molyester filter with sericin coating NQR PM(2.5,10 μm): ≈56% Eserma et al.I OMNVF wfcU - pilO nanofiber composite membrane EOh growing timeF aimensions: ØPMmm disc ET.MTcm O F M.MR poft smoke mM: > VV.VRB Ewhu et al.I OMNVF aouble layer nonwoven filter: mm - g - aMAbMA EaimethylaminoethylmethacrylateF-rdl Ereduced graphene oxideF ES.PBF H mm-g-aMAbMA sheet cilter: ORg/m O NV.O SRB Emm-aMAbMA-rdlF TS.QB Emm-aMAbMAF TO.OB Eaouble iayerF Eqang et al.I OMOMF blectronic filtration fon - spray with carbon fiber electrodes Echarger and platesF Charger outside-mounted Eemit ions to ambient airF aimensions: NOM×NUR×URmm P NOM PM (0.3μm; laboratory): 47.8% PM (0.3μm; real chamber): 39.8% Epung et al.I OMNVF blectrostatic precipitator based on corona discharge and parallel plates NOM mM EM.P/M.R/N/PF: ST.T/ST.T/QM.S/NQ.RB Eweng et al. I OMOMF RNN qable O. merformance of physical-chemical technologies for the removal of particulate matter. RNO RNP 
OR aesign parameters Air flow Em P /hF mollutant oemoval Capacity pingle mass bfficiency EBF oeference Adsorption fndoor passive panels Egypsum based; different treatmentsF aimensions: M.MUV mO M.O eCel: QM-140 μg/mO·h qoluene: PM-210 μg/mO·h - Ewuraimi et al.I OMNUF dranular activated carbon ØQSmmI NRMmm tube ; T.M g of adsorbent qhermal desorption EPMMºCF M.MS - Benzene: UN.R - VN.S qoluene: US.S-NMM bthylbenzene: VN.S-VV.O uylene: UV.V - NMM Ego and vangI OMMVF morous ferrihydrite/pilO composite Edifferent aging timesF ; M.OTg of adsorbent in ØNQMmm petri - eCel: S.PM-U.NN mg/g Smg/g after T cycles Euu et al.I OMNPF molyester filter with sericin coating NQR - Benz: O.VS ; qol: O.VS bt-Benz: P.TN ; uyl: Q.NU Eserma et al.I OMNVF Carbon nanotubes EiNCqF and carbon microspheres EiCMF aimensions: ØNSmmI VMmm ; Adsorbent: Pg M.MMN qol / bt - Benz / o - xyl iCNq: RO.OI TU.MI NMO mg/g iCM: QT.NI SQ.MI SO.T mg/g qol / bt - Benz / o - xyl iCNq: RT.UI QT.RI SN.U iCM: RN.TI RP.RI RO.S Eprivastava et al.I OMNVF Alkaline - treated carbon nanotubes EiNCqF and carbon microspheres EiCMF aimensions: ØNSmmI VMmm ; Adsorbent: Og M.MMN qol / bt - Benz / o - xyl iCNq: NUONI VSQI NMTS mg/g iCM: NMVPI UVRI VVS mg/g qol / bt - Benz / o - xyl iCNq: UQ.MI UP.PI UO.S iCM: UO.RI UP.QI TQ.U Eprivastava et al.I OMNVF eigh-grade activated carbon filter EportableF RNM eCel: M.S ; qoluene: PO.M n-decane: QM.M qetrachloroethylene: PN.P EChen et al.I OMMRF Activated carbon prefilter EportableF RSV eCel: M.O ; qoluene: T.U n-decane: NO.R qetrachloroethylene: S.M EChen et al.I OMMRF 
OS Carbon-zeolite mixture impregnated with potassium iodide EOV.R kgF OTO eCel: Q.M ; qoluene: NV.Q n-decane: PN.P qetrachloroethylene: PP.N EChen et al.I OMMRF Activated charcoal filter EportableF OOR eCel: M.Q ; qoluene: R.S n-decane: S.M qetrachloroethylene: R.O EChen et al.I OMMRF Non-woven polyester filter EO layersF impregnated with activated carbon EportableF PQM eCel: N.R ; qoluene: OS.M n-decane: SO.M qetrachloroethylene: OO.R EChen et al.I OMMRF dranular activated carbon H hMnlQ-impregnated alumina Ein-ductF - eCel: N.Q ; qoluene: P.R n-decane: P.Q qetrachloroethylene: P.P EChen et al.I OMMRF mhotocatalytic oxidation fndoor passive panels H rs-sis light EqilO-wood flooring; wallpaper; fabricF aimensions: M.MUV m O M.O qoluene: RV-120 μg/mO·h ; RU-70 μg/mO·h ; <15 μg/mO·h Ewuraimi et al.I OMNUF ooofing tiles Ethree typesF and corrugated sheets containing qilO ENQPcmO ; NO.N-QS.Q mg/cmO and VMcmO; OO.O mg/cmOI respectivelyF - qoluene Eoq / CpF: PMU-512 μg/mO·h at oeQTB 248 μg/mO·h at oeQTB qoluene Eoq /CpF: OU.O-SO.V at oeQTB ; TU±OB at oeNBOO.T at oeQTB Eaemeestere et al.I OMMUF rs light EORP.T nmF qilO converter EHMbosNN filterF Ein-ductF TOM Benz: M.RU; qol: M.RU; bt-Benz: M.RM; uyl:M.PO; btle: M.NVB; n-hex: M.OS; eCel: M.MU Ehadribegovic et al.I OMNNF rs light EORP.T nmF qilO converter EHMbosNN filterF Ein ductF PSMM lP Ers off F: YO lP Ers onF: NR Ehadribegovic et al.I OMNNF wnl nanorod-wrapped mqcb nanofiber antibacterial membrane with Ag nanoparticles ØPMmm ET.MTcmOF ; M.Nmm thick Bacteria: M.MS eCel: M.MNP HCHO: 1989 μg/mO·h Bacteria: >VV HCHO: ≈60 Eceng et al.I OMNTF 
OT Cellulose/molyester/molyamide filter coated with mOR qilO/pilO as catalyst Ein ductF cilter: QMMcmO, 250 μm thicN, 17g/mO qilO OR.U Toluene: 15687 μg/m O ·h n-decane: 15071 μg/mO·h TCE: 1646.9 μg/mO·h qoluene: U.SP n-decane: R.TS qCb: M.NT Eeéquet et al.I OMNUF srs lights H Mnlx/qilO on Ni foam catalyst mhotocatalyst: UPQcmOI Umm thick NOM qslC Ers off/onF: RM.NQ / TQ.US Eweng et al.I OMOMF molyacrylonitrile EmANF-qilO filter at different designs Esimple membrane ; monolith ; truncated cone ; corrugatedF ; mroperties EcmOI g/cmOF: PMI M.PP ; NVUI M.QU ; NPSI M.OP ; NONI N.MN V.R Acetaldehyde Membrane: OPMM mg/mO·h Monolith: OOOU mg/mO·h qrunc. cone: OPMM mg/mO·h Corrugated: PQNQ mg/m O ·h Acetaldehyde Membrane: R.PSB Monolith: Q.QPB qruncated cone: R.PSB Corrugated: >Q.VVB Eooso et al.I OMNVF qwo honeycomb monoliths coated with qilO as catalyst H P rs lamps Ein-ductF - eCel: N.S ; qoluene: N.U n-decane: O.R qetrachloroethylene: M.T EChen et al.I OMMRF pilO/qilO-coated glass fiber tissue S.Rg/mO pilO H S.Rg/mO qilO ØTSmm in-coated tube O Benzene: ≈30 Propionic acid: ≈49.8 Ewadi et al.I OMOMF Non - thermal plasma most-catalytic plasma with different catalysts Emt/AlOlPI Cu-Mn/qilOI ceOlPHMnlOI CulHMnlOF and energy densities Eg/iF ØQOmm tube; NRg of catalyst M.S qoluene Eall catalystF: >VM at oeMBI O.Rg/i qoluene Emt/AlOlPF: PV-SN at oePM-TOBI NMg/i O3 (Pt/Al2O3): ≈90 at all RH Esan aurme et al.I OMMVF aielectric barrier discharge Nqm aimensions: ØNOmmI OMmm tube Eexposure time of M.MS / M.NOsF Bacteria: M.TR cungi: N.TN Bacteria: >VR cungi: UR-VU Eiiang et al.I OMNOF aielectric barrier discharge Nqm S.Rg/mO pilO H S.Rg/mO qilO ØTSmm in - coated tube O Benzene: OV-RO mropionic acid: NM.P-PQ.T Ewadi et al.I OMOMF 
OU eybrid methods Activated carbon Ego et al.F H mCl device fnner surface ØOMmm tubeI M.Rmg/cmO of qilO qhermal desorption EPMMºCF M.MS Benzene: VR.M - VU.T qoluene: VT.R-NMM bthylbenzene: VU.P-NMM uylene: VS.S - NMM Ego and vangI OMMVF mlasma deodorization unit H Activated charcoal filter EportableF QMU eCel: N.O ; qoluene: S.T n-decane: V.S qetrachloroethylene: R.U EChen et al.I OMMRF blectronic cell H Activated carbon postfilter EportableF RQQ eCel: M.P ; qoluene: O.M n-decane: U.N qetrachloroethylene: N.R EChen et al.I OMMRF eigh intensity rs lamp H mhotocatalytic semiconductor H mleated activated carbon filter Ein-ductF - eCel: P.M ; qoluene: QO.N n-decane: QQ.U qetrachloroethylene: QS.S EChen et al.I OMMRF wfcU-pilO nanofiber composite membrane aimensions: ØPMmm disc ET.MTcmOF M.MNP eCel: PS.MQ μg/mO·h; QU.UTmg/g HCHO: ≈80 Ewhu et al.I OMNVF aielectric barrier discharge Nqm H rs light H pilO/qilO-coated glass fiber tissue S.Rg/mO pilO H S.Rg/mO qilO ØTSmm in - coated tube O Benzene: RU-VM mropionic acid: SP.U-VQ.U Ewadi et al.I OMOMF blectrostatic precipitator H sacuum - rs lights H Mnlx/qilO on Ni foam catalyst H MnlO catalyst for lP removal Mnl x /qil O catalyst: UPQcm O I Umm thick NOM qslC: Q.MQ No lP generation Eweng et al.I OMOMF Mlc qilO/ril-SS-NeO composites H rs light qoluene exp: NMMmg of cat. on ORM-mesh screen Acetaldehyde exp: NMMmmI ØSmm tube M.MS qoluene EOR/TR/VMBw qil O F: NMS.T/NSQ.Q/NQO.M mg/g CePCel: ETRBw qilOF: OTR.P mg/g qoluene EOR/TR/VMBw qil O F: QT.O/TO.T/SO.U CePCel: ETRB w qilOF: TM.TQ Ewhang et al.I OMOMF 
OV aouble layer nonwoven filter: mm-g-aMAbMA EaimethylaminoethylmethacrylateF-rdl Ereduced graphene oxideF ES.PBF H mm-g-aMAbMA sheet ; cilter: ORg/mO M.NU Benzene / qoluene / uylene mm-aMAbMA-rdl: RN.Q / RM.S / QU.V mg/g mm-aMAbMA: YRmg/g each aouble layer: PV.N mg/g overall Eqang et al.I OMOMF RNQ qable P. merformance of physical/chemical technologies for the removal of slCs. RNR 
PM Mechanical filtrationI based on the forced circulation of air through a fibrous material where RNS pollutants are capturedI is the simplest and most popular method for mM removal. mM removal RNT efficiencies depend on several factors such as the type and material of the filter or the air flow RNU Eearriman et al.I OMNV; iuengas et al.I OMNRF. qhese filters need regular replacements to RNV maintain the capture efficiencyI prevent the re-emission of pollutants and to avoid the growth ROM of microorganisms on the organic matter trapped in the filter material Eduieysse et al.I OMMUF. RON pingle pass efficiencies higher than VMB are typically achieved in conventional filtersI even at ROO high areal flow rates of POQM mP/mOh Emolidori et al.I OMNPF. New materials such as zeolites ROP Ewhu et al.I OMNVF or polymers Eqang et al.I OMOM; tang et al.I OMNPF have been tested as ROQ effective filters for particulate matter Eqable OF. ROR blectronic filtration is based on the attraction of negatively charged particles to a plate with ROS opposite polarityI where particles are retained. qwo commercial devices are available: ROT electrostatic precipitators ionizing pollutant particles and ion generators dispersing into the air ROU ions that will subsequently attach to pollutants. qhis technology exhibits higher capital and ROV operating costs than mechanical filtration Eparticularly ion generatorsF and requires an active RPM removal of the particles accumulated on the plates. blectronic filtration also entails the RPN generation of harmful pollutants such as ionsI ozone or other compounds from slCs ionization RPO Eeubbard et al.I OMMR; iuengas et al.I OMNRF. qhe efficiencies achieved by electronic filters are RPP lower than those provided by mechanical filtrationI and range between NQ.RB and ST.TB for RPQ different mM size Eweng et al.I OMOMF Eqable OF. RPR Adsorption consists of the capture of organic and inorganic volatile pollutants on the surface of RPS an adsorbent material. qhe most popular materials are activated carbon and zeolitesI although RPT aluminaI silica gel or polymers are also used Ego and vangI OMMV; him and AhnI OMNO; iuengas RPU et al.I OMNRF. qhese adsorbent materials can be even incorporated in construction materialsI RPV which are easy to integrate in interior surfaces ECros et al.I OMNO; da pilva et al.I OMNT; dall et RQM al.I OMNN; wuraimi et al.I OMNUF. A high relative humidity and the inherent variability of pollutant RQN 
PN levels in indoor environments decrease the efficiency of adsorption filters. fn additionI the RQO adsorption specificity of the material with one pollutant may inhibit the efficient adsorption of RQP other gas pollutants. qhese systems can also accumulate microorganisms hazardous to human RQQ health. Adsorbent materials need to be periodically replaced or regenerated upon saturation to RQR maintain the efficiency and prevent re-emissionI thus increasing operating costs Eduieysse et RQS al.I OMMU; iuengas et al.I OMNRF. slC removal efficiencies in adsorption devices are very RQT heterogeneous and dependent on pollutant hydrophobicity EChen et al.I OMMRF. NeverthelessI RQU removal rates of VMB are achieved for Bqbu using activated carbon Ego and vangI OMMVF and RQV carbon nanocomposites Eprivastava et al.I OMNVF as adsorbent materials. oemoval capacities up RRM to NQM μg/mO·h Ewuraimi et al.I OMNUF or U.NN mg/g Euu et al.I OMNPF have been reported for RRN formaldehyde. iikewiseI privastava et al. achieved retention capacities of NUONI VSQ and NMTS RRO mg/g for the removal of benzeneI toluene and xyleneI respectively Eqable PF. lverallI RRP adsorption technologies are considered the best physical/chemical technology to remove indoor RRQ slCs. RRR lzonisers generate lP molecules from ambient lO by high-voltage discharge or rs radiation . RRS lP is a strong oxidant that can react with slCs and sfCs present in indoor air. Although the RRT levels of some slCs may be reducedI the abatement efficiencies of ozonisers are not superior RRU to their physical/chemical counterpart Eiuengas et al.I OMNRF. fn additionI health problems may RRV arise from high indoor levels of ozone or by hazardous secondary pollutants produced by the RSM reaction of lP with slCsI particularly with terpenes EChen et al.I OMMR; eubbard et al.I OMMR; RSN iuengas et al.I OMNRF. qhe performance of ozonisers has not been evaluated in this review as RSO they are not recommended for indoor air treatment due to their above-mentioned health risks. RSP RSQ rs photolysis relies on the degradation of slCsI bacteriaI fungi and viruses by ultraviolet RSR radiation. fndeedI this technology constitutes an effective method for sterilization at ambient RSS temperature and pressure Eae oobles and hramerI OMNTF. eoweverI rs radiation is harmful RST 
PO for human health and only some air pollutants are effectively destroyed. qhe high cost of lamp RSU acquisition and intensive energy consumption rank among the main disadvantages of this RSV technology. fn additionI undesired compounds such as ozone or secondary organic pollutants RTM might be released to indoor air as a result of the unspecific action of rs radiation EChen et al.I RTN OMMR; duieysse et al.I OMMU; iuengas et al.I OMNRF. qhe performance of stand-alone photolysis RTO units was not herein evaluated since this technology is commonly implemented as RTP photocatalytic oxidation. RTQ mhotocatalytic oxidation EmClF utilizes catalytic semiconductors to create reactive radicals RTR from ambient lO and radiation Egenerally rsFI which further react with indoor air pollutants. RTS qilO is the most popular catalyst due to its low costI non-toxicityI biocompatibility and RTT effectiveness. lther metallic oxides and sulfides EpnlOI wnlI CdpF are also used as catalysts RTU EChen et al.I OMMR; Mo et al.I OMMVF. qhis technology can cope with a larger spectrum of RTV pollutants than photolysis Eduieysse et al.I OMMUF. qhe generation of harmful radicals and RUM secondary organic aerosolsI along with the high costs of catalyst media replacementI limit the RUN widespread use of this technology EChen et al.I OMMR; iuengas et al.I OMNRF. pingle pass RUO efficiencies in photocatalytic devices are pollutant and catalyst specific. cor instanceI ceng et RUP al. EOMNTF reported a removal efficiency of SMB for formaldehyde Eceng et al.I OMNTFI while RUQ weng et al. EOMOMF reported a TRB removal of qslC Eweng et al.I OMOMF. qhe areal elimination RUR capacity is an important design parameter in mClI with values as high at PQNQ mg/mO·h reported RUS for acetaldehyde Eooso et al.I OMNVF Eqable PF. RUT mlasma consists of a cloud of highly ionized gas containing electronsI positive ionsI oxidants RUU and free radicals able to degrade organic pollutantsI precipitate particulate matter and kill RUV pathogens Eiuengas et al.I OMNRF. Non-thermal plasma ENqmF is generated at ambient RVM temperature by high voltage discharges Eusually corona dischargeF at the expenses of a high RVN energy consumption. pimilarly to rs or photocatalytic oxidationI plasma mediates the RVO generation of lP and other by-products or oxidation intermediates that may be as dangerous for RVP 
PP human health as the parent pollutants EChen et al.I OMMR; iuengas et al.I OMNRF. Nqm can achieve RVQ removal efficiencies of up to VMB for slCs Esan aurme et al.I OMMVF and microorganisms RVR Eiiang et al.I OMNOFI although operation under real conditions Ei.e. high humidity and low RVS pollutant concentrationsF could reduce its abatement performance Eqable PF. RVT Membrane separation is based on the transfer of indoor air pollutants to another fluid through RVU a semipermeable membrane. qhis technology has been consistently proven at high pollutant RVV concentrationsI but its efficiency at the low levels of pollutants found in indoor air is not SMM guaranteed Eduieysse et al.I OMMUF. Mechanical resistance and pressure dropI and therefore SMN operational costsI are higher compared to other technologies. fn additionI slCs captured on SMO the other side of the membrane must be appropriately managed or destroyed in a separate unit SMP Eduieysse et al.I OMMU; iuengas et al.I OMNRF. Membrane separation is still a developing SMQ technology in indoor air treatment. SMR lverallI there is no single physical-chemical technology capable of coping with all indoor air SMS pollutants in a cost-effective mannerI which requires the use of sequential technology SMT configurations at the expenses of superior capital and maintenance costs. Mechanical filtration SMU is typically installed to eliminate particulate matter prior to other abatement technology SMV Eiuengas et al.I OMNRF. qhe broad nature of slCs and sfCs requires tandems of gas pollutant SNM abatement technologies. cor instanceI go and vang EOMMVF reported removal efficiencies of SNN Bqbu of ~NMMB using a granular activated carbon adsorbent coupled with a mCl-qilO unit SNO Ego and vangI OMMVF. iikewiseI whu et al. EOMNVF Ewhu et al.I OMNVFEwhu et al.I OMNVFachieved SNP a removal efficiency of UMB for formaldehydeI with an adsorption capacity of QU.V mg/g Egram SNQ of adsorbentF Ewhu et al.I OMNVF. whang et al. EOMOMF recorded capacities of up to NSQ.Q mg/g for SNR toluene and OTR.P mg/g for acetaldehyde Ewhang et al.I OMOMFI while a capacity of PV.N mg/g SNS has been reported by qang et al. EOMOMF for benzeneI toluene and xylene Eqang et al.I OMOMF SNT Eqable PF. SNU SNV 
PQ R. Biological Based murification Methods SOM qhe performance of conventional physical-chemical methods for indoor air purification is SON hampered by the low concentrationsI the diversity and the variability of slCs in indoor SOO environments. eoweverI these limitations represent an opportunity for biological based SOP purification systems. Biotechnologies are based on the action of microorganisms or plantsI SOQ which are able to eliminate or transform the gas pollutants by utilizing them as energy and/or SOR carbon source for either cell maintenance or replication Eduieysse et al.I OMMUF. lverallI indoor SOS air pollutant biodegradation relies on the action of oxidative enzymesI which function at SOT ambient pressure and temperature without the need of additional chemicals. fn botanical SOU technologiesI both plant and soil microenvironment are responsible of pollutant degradation. SOV ln the other handI gas-water contactors are based on the biocatalytic action of suspended or SPM immobilized microorganismsI which bio-convert air pollutants into ClOI eOl and new SPN microorganisms. qhese microorganisms need to be integrated by diverseI versatile and adaptive SPO microbial communities of bacteriaI fungiI microalgae or yeasts able to remove simultaneously SPP a wide spectrum of pollutants at variable concentrations without generating undesirable by-SPQ products EporeanuI OMNSF. Microorganisms are typically present as biofilmsI which consist of a SPR moist layer of cells adhered to the surface of a support material. Biofilms provide a protected SPS environment to microorganisms and support a direct contact between the gas pollutants and SPT cellsI which enhances pollutant mass-transferI a commonly limiting parameter in gas-phase SPU bioreactors Eduieysse et al.I OMMU; poreanuI OMNS; poreanu and aumontI OMOMF. SPV Biotechnologies have been successfully developed for industrial applicationsI where varying SQM concentrations of multiple gas pollutants from different sources are cost-effectively treated SQN Ebstrada et al.I OMNN; hennes and seigaI OMNP; poreanu and aumontI OMOM; san droenestijn SQO and hraakmanI OMMRF. eoweverI the potential of biotechnologies for indoor air purification SQP remains unexplored due to the particular and challenging conditions of indoor environments SQQ Emacheco-qorgal et al.I OMNRF. Mass-transfer limitations and the rapidly changing SQR 
PR concentrations of a large spectrum of gas pollutants are the main drawbacks associated with SQS indoor air treatment. AdditionallyI a cost-competitive ClO removal and the control of biological SQT hazards need to be addressed prior in-house implementation of biotechnologies. Biological-SQU based purification systems for indoor air would improve the energy efficiency of buildingsI SQV while providing additional benefits in indoor environmental quality such as aesthetic and SRM psychological improvements Eduieysse et al.I OMMU; Moya et al.I OMNVF. As indoor environments SRN are often condensed spacesI biotechnologies need to be compact and aesthetically integrated SRO units with high effectiveness treating large air flowrates. fn this contextI new configurations of SRP bioreactors such as membraneI capillary or two-phase reactors have been successfully tested to SRQ maximize the mass-transfer of gas pollutants Ehraakman et al.I OMNN; Muñoz et al.I OMNO; SRR poreanuI OMNSF. Alternatively, botanical bioﬁltration could have additional economicI SRS environmental and social beneﬁts, including remarNable psychological impacts of ‘greening’ SRT the indoor space with plants. fn additionI plants are able to effectively decrease ClO SRU concentrationI which has been proved to impact on human decision-making performance SRV Epatish et al.I OMNOF. SSM qhe most common technologies for indoor air treatment are discussed below. curthermoreI SSN some examples of these purification methods and their principal operational characteristics are SSO shown in qable Q and in cigure P. SSP 
PS SSQ cigure P. pchematic operational configurations of different air purification biotechnologies.SSR 
PT aescription of the qechnology Air flow E m P /hF bBoq EminF oemoval bfficiency EBF blimination capacity E mg/m P ∙ hF fnlet concentration fnlet load oeference Botanical technologies Active potted plant: bpipremnum aureum EOF cilter bed: M.PR×M.O×M.NR mPI granular activated carbon H shale pebbles EN:N mixture; ØR mmF R.N m P chamber RM mP/h eCel: NV.V-PO.TB at oeRR-VMB HCHO: 824±15 μg/mP Etang et al.I OMNQF Biowall: mhilodendron scandens ENUF H mhilodendron scandens DBrazilD ENPF H Asplenium antiquum ENVF H pyngonium podophillum ENPF N.R mO module; PM mP chamber pupport: inorganic media H activated carbon RM mP/h Butanone: RR.N-RU.RB Butanone: PV.Q-44.8 μg/mP Eqorpy et al.I OMNUF Biofilters Compost/perlite ETR:ORF as packing EU.RiF NOM cmI ØNM cm msC reactor Activated sludge as inoculum N.RT-M.RP min e O p: >VVB qoluene: >VV.VB Butanone: >VU.VB e O p: OP.S - QP.P mg/m P qoluene: M.QM-M.SM mg/mP Butanone: Q.P - S.P mg/m P Eiebrero et al.I OMNNF Compost as packing Oi msC column ERP cmI ØU.P cmF frrigation flow rates: PM/NOM mi/day Activated sludge as inoculum M.TO/M.PM min MeSH: >98%; ≈1.2 g/m P ∙ h Toluene: >98%;≈0.22 g/mP∙h α-pinene: >98%;≈0.25 g/mP∙h n - hexane: VS - 98%; ≈0.20 g/m P ∙ h Mepe: QNM - VUM mg/m P ∙ h qoluene: SV-NSQ mg/mP∙h α-pinene: TS-NUO mg/mP∙h n - hexane: SP - NRM mg/m P ∙ h Eiebrero et al.I OMNQF Compo st/pozzolan EUM:OMF as packing EP.UiF M.OR mI ØM.N m reactor Activated sludge as inoculum M.PU min Toluene: ≈100%; ≈23.9 mg/m P ∙ h p-xylene: ≈65-100%; ≈14 mg/m P ∙ h qoluene: M-OR mg/mP∙h p-xylene: M-OO.R mg/mP∙h Eiuengas et al.I OMNTF Biotrickling filters mseudomonas putida embedded in calcium alginate gel EgranulesF; PM cmI ØS cm column EQ bedsF; iiquid flow: N.OP i/day M.MV mP/h eCel: SU.S-VP.RB; OR-NRU.Q mg/mP∙h ≈0.2-N.PQ mg/mP Eiu et al.I OMNOF 
PU mr foam as packing EOiI NcmP cubesF; msC column ERP cmIØU.P cmF; iiquid flow: N.R m/h Activated sludge as inoculum M.MT-M.TO min Mepe: >VTB; ≈1.2 g/m P ∙ h Toluene: >97%; ≈0.22 g/mP∙h α-pinene: >97%; ≈0.25 g/mP∙h n - hexane: UU - 95%; ≈0.20 g/m P ∙ h Mepe: QNM - VUM mg/m P ∙ h qoluene: SV-NSQ mg/mP∙h α-pinene: TS-NUO mg/mP∙h n - hexane: SP - NRM mg/m P ∙ h Eiebrero et al.I OMNQF mr foam as packing EQU cubes; Q×Q×Q cm P F Acrylic U×U×TS cmP reactor iiquid flow: M.P/M.R i/min Activated sludge as inoculum M.NO/M.PM mP/h N.RP/M.SN min slCs Enormalized carbon contentF TU-UTB; N.O-V.P mgcarbon/mP∙h N.R-NM.T mgcarbon/mP∙h Epaucedo-iucero and oevahI OMNUF mb oalu-rings EN.R×N.R cmOF as packing ESM cm highF; NMM cmI QUi reactor; iiquid flow: N.O mP/h bnriched culture inoculum P.M-V.M mP/h M.VS-M.PO min bthanol: NMMB; R-OO g/mP∙h aMp:NM-NMMB; M.SR-S.S g/mP∙h lptimal VRB Elow gas fluxF bthanol: R-OO g/mP∙h aMp: O.U-U.R g/mP∙h EBak et al.I OMNTF Membrane biotechnologies Porous acrylonitrile support (50μm) + PDMS layer (0.3μm); 40 cmO membrane in OMM×R×O mmP EUmiF compartments; iiquid flow: M.MP i/min Activated sludge H hydrophobic bacteria as inoculum EH silicon oilF; N.M-M.NO min Acetone: VR-NMMB qoluene: VP-NMMB n-hexane: T-OUB iimonene: UU-NMMB Acetone: M.N-NM.O mg/mP∙h qoluene: M.O-NP.Q mg/mP∙h n-hexane: M.N-R.S mg/mP∙h iimonene: M.N-V.S mg/mP∙h Eiebrero et al.I OMNPF Commercial hollow - fiber membrane reactor (10600 PDMS fibers, Ø190 μm; V: 30M mi; A: UPMM cmOF; iiquid flow: M.O i/min; Activated sludge as inoculum N.Q-M.OT min Mepe: U.R - 98%; ≈0.58 g/m P ∙ h qoluene: ST-99%; ≈0.11 g/mP∙h α-pinene: TM-99%; ≈0.12 g/mP∙h n - hexane: PU - 58%; ≈0.09 g/m P ∙ h Mepe: ONM - NNMP mg/m P ∙ h qoluene: PR-NUR mg/mP∙h α-pinene: PV-OMR mg/mP∙h n - hexane: PO - NSV mg/m P ∙ h Eiebrero et al.I OMNQF eybrid technologies Biofilter H Adsorption system myrex column EOP cmI ØNM cmF packed with compost H Activated carbon adsorption column EO.V cmI ØO.R cm columnF M.R mP/h M.OO min EBcF M.MMO min EACF qoluene: UU.O-VU.OB EBcF qoluene: UQ.V-VV.VB EBcHACF qoluene: NT - 52 μg/m P EQ.O-NQ mg/mP∙hF PeaNs of 733±55 μg/mP EOMM±OM mg/m P ∙ hF Eeort et al.I OMNQF 
PV Biofilter H Adsorption system OR cmI ØNM cm reactor; Compost/pozzolan EUM:OMF packing EN.OSiF H Activated carbon EN.OSiF column Activated sludge as inoculum M.NP-M.MQ min Toluene: ≈100% (at 45 mg/m P ∙ hFI up to UM mg/mP∙h EBcF; ≈100%, up to NUT mg/mP∙h EACF p-xylene: ≈100% (at 32 mg/mP∙hF up to PO mg/mP∙h EEBF); ≈100%, up to SP mg/m P ∙ h EACF qoluene: M-OPR mg/mP∙h p-xylene: M-SP mg/mP∙h Eiuengas et al.I OMNTF Biofilter H Adsorption system OR cmI ØNM cm reactor; Compost/pozzolan EUM:OMF packing EN.OSiF H Activated carbon EN.OSiF column Activated sludge a s inoculum M.NP-M.MQ min qoluene: NMMB at QR mg/mP∙h EBcF; NMMB at NUT mg/mP∙h EACF p-xylene: NMMB at PO mg/mP∙h EBcF; NMMB at SP mg/mP∙h EACF qoluene: M-OPR mg/mP∙h p-xylene: M-SP mg/mP∙h Eiuengas et al.I OMNTF Bag filter H mhotocatalytic reactor H Bqc Bag filter: VM cmI ØSM cm reactor mC: QR×QR×NMM cmP; NM rs lamps; OM Ni foam plates EON.R×OR.M cmOF coated with qilO Bqc: OOM cmI ØQM cm reactor; ceramic beads/ oaschig rings ERM:RMF packing; S×NOcm bed layers OMM mP/h qslC: UQB EQHSRHNRBF meAs: UTB ENUHSPHSBF mBabs: VQB EUMHNNHPBF B for Bag filterI Bqc and mCI respectively qslC: QU-920 μg/mP meAs: M.VQ-1.2 μg/mP mBabs: M.UR-4.8 μg/mP EChen et al.I OMNSF SSS qable Q. merformance of biological technologies for the removal of slCs. SST 
QM mhytoremediation is an established method for the treatment of polluted soils and waters. qhe SSU application of botanical systems to indoor environments has been shown effective for removing SSV slCs and mM Eiiu et al.I OMMT; macheco-qorgal et al.I OMNR; qorpy et al.I OMNQ; tood et al.I STM OMMS; vang et al.I OMMVF. Botanical technologies can be divided into passive Ee.g. potted plantsF STN or active Eplant-based biotrickling filtersI mBqcsF systems. massive systems rely on the diffusion STO of gas pollutantsI which is a slow process at the low concentrations typically present in indoor STP environments. Active systems incorporate mechanical ventilation devices to increase the STQ availability of the gas pollutants. fn mBqcsI the polluted air is forced to flow though the aerial STR parts and roots of hydroponic plants to maximize the removal of pollutants. Additional benefits STS of these active systems such as decreasing indoor temperatureI increasing relative humidity or STT acting as passive acoustic insulation have been identified EMoya et al.I OMNVF. thile ClOI plxI STU Nlx and lP appear to be taken up directly through the stomates of plants during daylightI slCs STV are mostly degraded by microorganisms present in the rhizosphere. A symbiotic relationship SUM between plants and microorganisms may be achieved EMoya et al.I OMNV; lh et al.I OMNN; SUN macheco-qorgal et al.I OMNR; qorpy et al.I OMNQ; vang et al.I OMMVF. qhe performance of SUO botanical technologies is still lower than that of other conventional technologies Eqable QF. SUP Alike phytoremediationI biofiltration is a well-known and proven method for the removal of SUQ gas pollutantsI which can be engineered in multiple configurations Ecigure PF. fn biofilters SUR EBcsFI microorganisms are immobilized in a packing mediaI traditionally an organic material SUS like compostI irrigation is intermittentI and moisture and nutrients are retained by the biofilm SUT and the packing media. Bcs are the preferred option for the treatment of hydrophobic pollutants SUU based on the occurrence of a direct contact between the biofilm and the air emission. SUV Bioscrubbers consist of two separate unitsI where pollutants are initially transferred in a packed-SVM bed or mist absorption unit from the gas phase to an aqueous phaseI which is recirculated to a SVN second unit where microorganisms growing in suspension biodegrade the dissolved pollutants. SVO qhis configuration provides high abatement efficiencies for hydrophilic pollutants. Biotrickling SVP 
QN filters EBqcsF are stand-alone units with packing mediaI typically inorganic materials with large SVQ surface area supporting biofilm growthI with a solution of nutrients continuously trickling down SVR over the packing. Bqcs are effective for the treatment of hydrophilic pollutants and typically SVS operate at lower gas residence time than Bc or bioscrubbers EporeanuI OMNS; poreanu and SVT aumontI OMOMF. qhese systems are well-established technologies for air pollution control in SVU many industrial applicationsI providing an effective abatement performanceI reliability and low SVV operating costs Ebstrada et al.I OMNN; hennes and seigaI OMNP; poreanu and aumontI OMOM; san TMM droenestijn and hraakmanI OMMRF. qable Q highlights the performance of Bcs and Bqcs TMN operating at the concentration range commonly found in indoor air. oemoval efficiencies higher TMO than VR B at gas residence times lower than VR s have been reported in Bcs and Bqcs for a TMP wide range of pollutants. TMQ Membrane bioreactors are based on the separation of gas and liquid phase by a membrane. A TMR nutrient solutionI containing the pollutant degrading microorganismsI is continuously TMS recirculated at one side of the membraneI while the contaminated air flows Eusually counter-TMT currentlyF on the other side. An attached biofilm might be formed on the aqueous side of the TMU membrane. qhe pollutants diffuse from the gas side through the membrane and are biodegraded TMV by the microorganisms in the biofilm or in the bulk cultivation medium Eporeanu and aumontI TNM OMOMF. aespite exhibiting high investment costsI membrane bioreactors bring some innovations TNN in the field of indoor air purification. cirstI the air stream and microorganisms in liquid phase TNO are physically separatedI which allows a better control of operational conditionsI including TNP biofilm thickness and nutrient supplyI and prevents the drying of the biofilm. pecondlyI the risk TNQ of an undesired stripping of microorganisms is avoided and the excess of humidity in the TNR purified air is limited. cinallyI the mass-transfer of gas pollutants is improved due to the affinity TNS and permeability of the membraneI especially in the case of hydrophobic pollutants Ehumar et TNT al.I OMMU; ptuder and von oohrI OMMUF. Membrane bioreactors have been tested for the treatment TNU of high slC concentrationI and their performance in indoor air applications remains TNV 
QO unexplored. mromising removal efficiencies have been obtained by iebrero et al. EOMNP; OMNQFI TOM although the degradation of highly hydrophobic pollutants like n-hexane is still problematic. TON Eiebrero et al.I OMNQI OMNPF. TOO Capillary bioreactors are a new approach on the abatement of gas pollutants. Capillary TOP bioreactors are engineered as parallel straight microchannelsI with a maximum internal TOQ diameter of R mm in air-water reactors Ehreutzer et al.I OMMRbF. A segmented flow Eor qaylor TOR flowF is desired inside the capillariesI which consists of alternating sections of gas and liquid TOS Eair bubbles and liquid slugsF that flow co-currently either upwards or downwards. qhe mass-TOT transfer of gas pollutants is enhanced by the internal circulation within liquid slugsI which TOU increases the contact between the gas and the liquid phase. qhis configuration improves the gas-TOV liquid mass-transfer Emuch higher than conventional stirred systemsFI while pressure drop TPM remains low Ehraakman et al.I OMNN; hreutzer et al.I OMMRbI OMMRa; oocha-oios et al.I OMNPF. TPN qhis technology could achieve better results than traditional bioreactors for a given power input TPO Ehreutzer et al.I OMMRaF. Although capillary bioreactors are promising solutions for indoor air TPP purificationI some problems such as the long-term maintenance of a robust qaylor flow needs TPQ to be solved Ehreutzer et al.I OMMRaF. fn this contextI some innovative designs have been TPR proposedI such as a capillary microbioreactor where pollutants are pre-concentrated to TPS guarantee an excellent performance of the qaylor flow bioreactorI Eiópez ae ieón et al.I OMNVF. TPT Microalgae fix ClO during photosynthesis using light as energy source while releasing lO to TPU the ambient air. thile plants can also perform photosynthesisI algae are much more effective TPV in this process because of the simpler cell structure and higher light utilization efficiencies TQM EBrennan and lwendeI OMNM; poreanu and aumontI OMOMF. Algae photobioreactors may be a TQN feasible solution for indoor environments with elevated ClO levels such as officesI schools or TQO shopping centers. pome species of microalgae are also able to use hydrocarbons from the TQP environment to obtain carbon and energy Eheterotrophic metabolismFI and even exhibit a mixed TQQ metabolism depending on the environmental conditions. Microalgae systems have been widely TQR 
QP studied in recent decades for biofuel or food production and wastewater treatmentI where TQS operational conditions are far from those encountered in indoors environments EAnbalagan et TQT al.I OMNT; Mendoza et al.I OMNP; NiederwieserI OMNR; poreanu and aumontI OMOMF. eoweverI TQU there are few studies assessing the performance of algal photobioreactors as facades for indoor TQV air purification as well as energy recovery systems EAraji and phahidI OMNU; tilkinson et al.I TRM OMNTF. TRN TRO Conclusions TRP qhe problem of exposure to indoor air pollution has become more apparent in recent yearsI as TRQ people spend more than UMB of the time indoors and buildings are progressively sealed against TRR the environment to obtain heating and cooling energy savings. oecent studies have shown that TRS poor indoor air quality is a major contributor to global health problems and causes multi-TRT millionaire losses. CurrentlyI there is not a single physical-chemical technology that can TRU efficiently address all challenges related to indoor air purification. Biological based purification TRV systems are promising solutions to overcome the limitations of indoor air treatmentI such as TSM diversity and hydrophobicity of pollutantsI variability of concentrationsI etc. AdditionallyI these TSN systems need to assure humidity control of purified airI prevent microorganism releases and TSO incorporate ClO removal. The accomplishment of all these features would lead to ‘green’ TSP energy efficient systems able to improve fAn. pome hybrid solutions integrating TSQ biotechnologies with physical-chemical systems have been proposed to overcome these TSR limitationsI where technologies complement each other to cover a wider range of action. TSS As modern building regulations are based on energy savingsI which reduces air exchange and TST increases the concentration of indoor pollutantsI future research should focus on the progressive TSU development of bio-based systems. eenceI biotechnologies have the potential to successfully TSV deal with the problem of poor fAnI although more investigation is necessary to develop cost-TTM 
QQ effective systems that can be integrated in indoor spaces combining optimal performance with TTN acceptable aesthetics. TTO TTP Acknowledgements TTQ qhis work was supported by the Ministry of pcienceI fnnovation and rniversities xproject TTR oqfOMNU-M-MVSQQN-B-fMMz. qhe oegional dovernment of Castilla y ieón and the br-cbabo TTS program xgrant numbers Cir OMNT-MV and rfC MTNz are also gratefully acknowledged. TTT 
QR oeferences TTU Al eorrI v.I ArifI M.I haushikI A.I MazroeiI A.I hatafygiotouI M.I blsarragI b.I OMNS. lccupant TTV productivity and office indoor environment quality: A review of the literature. Build. TUM bnviron. NMRI PSV–PUV. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.buildenv.OMNS.MS.MMN TUN AnbalaganI A.I qoledo-CervantesI A.I mosadasI b.I oojoI b.M.I iebreroI o.I donzłlez-płnchezI TUO A.I NehrenheimI b.I MuñozI o.I OMNT. Continuous photosynthetic abatement of ClO and TUP volatile organic compounds from exhaust gas coupled to wastewater treatment: bvaluation TUQ of tubular algal-bacterial photobioreactor. g. ClO rtil. ONI PRP–PRV. TUR https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.jcou.OMNT.MT.MNS TUS ANpbpI CpqBI lnAfI OMNQ. ±Étude exploratoire du coût socio-économique des polluants de TUT l’air intérieur” Eoapport d’étudeF. TUU ArajiI M.q.I phahidI f.I OMNU. pymbiosis optimization of building envelopes and micro-algae TUV photobioreactors. g. Build. bng. NUI RU–SR. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.jobe.OMNU.MO.MMU TVM Armendłriz-ArnezI C.I bdwardsI o.a.I gohnsonI M.I oosasI f.A.I bspinosaI c.I MaseraI l.o.I TVN OMNM. fndoor particle size distributions in homes with open fires and improved matsari cook TVO stoves. Atmos. bnviron. QQI OUUN–OUUS. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.atmosenv.OMNM.MQ.MQV TVP AqpaoI OMMT. bthylbenzene- qoxcAnsqM. N–O. TVQ BakI A.I hozikI s.I aybalI m.I pulowiczI p.I hasperczykI a.I husI p.I BarbusinskiI h.I OMNT. TVR Abatement robustness of volatile organic compounds using compact trickle-bed TVS bioreactor: Biotreatment of styreneI ethanol and dimethyl sulfide mixture in contaminated TVT airstream. fnt. Biodeterior. Biodegrad. NNVI PNS–POU. TVU https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.ibiod.OMNS.NM.MPV TVV BarmparesosI N.I AssimakopoulosI M.N.I AssimakopoulosI s.a.I ioumosI N.I potiriouI M.A.I UMM houkoumtzisI A.I OMNU. fndoor air quality and thermal conditions in a primary school with UMN a green roof system. Atmosphere EBaselF. VI N–NQ. https://doi.org/NM.PPVM/atmosVMOMMTR UMO BrennanI i.I lwendeI m.I OMNM. Biofuels from microalgae — A review of technologies for UMP 
QS production I processing I and extractions of biofuels and co-products NQI RRT–RTT. UMQ https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.rser.OMMV.NM.MMV UMR BroderickI Á.I ByrneI M.I ArmstrongI p.I pheahanI g.I CogginsI A.M.I OMNT. A pre and post UMS evaluation of indoor air qualityI ventilationI and thermal comfort in retrofitted co-operative UMT social housing. Build. bnviron. NOOI NOS–NPP. UMU https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.buildenv.OMNT.MR.MOM UMV BurgeI m.p.I OMMQ. pick building syndrome. lccup. bnviron. Med. SNI NUR–NVM. UNM https://doi.org/NM.NNPS/oem.OMMP.MMUUNP UNN CampagnoloI a.I paragaI a.b.I CattaneoI A.I ppinazzèI A.I MandinI C.I MabiliaI o.I merrecaI UNO b.I pakellarisI f.I CanhaI N.I MihuczI s.d.I pzigetiI q.I senturaI d.I MadureiraI g.I de UNP lliveira cernandesI b.I de hluizenaarI v.I CornelissenI b.I eänninenI l.I CarrerI m.I UNQ tolkoffI m.I CavalloI a.M.I BartzisI g.d.I OMNT. slCs and aldehydes source identification UNR in buropean office buildings - qhe lccfCAfo study. Build. bnviron. NNRI NU–OQ. UNS https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.buildenv.OMNT.MN.MMV UNT CanhaI N.I iageI g.I CandeiasI p.I AlvesI C.I AlmeidaI p.M.I OMNT. fndoor air quality during UNU sleep under different ventilation patterns. Atmos. mollut. oes. UI NNPO–NNQO. UNV https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.apr.OMNT.MR.MMQ UOM Carazo cernłndezI i.I cernłndez AlvarezI o.I donzłlez-BarcalaI c.g.I oodríguez mortalI g.A.I UON OMNP. fndoor Air Contaminants and their fmpact on oespiratory mathologies. Arch. UOO Bronconeumol. QVI OO–OT. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.arbr.OMNO.NN.MMQ UOP ChenI g.I whangI a.I iiI d.I AnI q.I cuI g.I OMNS. qhe health risk attenuation by simultaneous UOQ elimination of atmospheric slCs and mlms from an e-waste dismantling workshop by an UOR integrated de-dusting with decontamination technique. Chem. bng. g. PMNI OVV–PMR. UOS https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.cej.OMNS.MR.MNP UOT ChenI t.I whangI g.p.I whangI w.I OMMR. merformance of air cleaners for removing multiple UOU volatile organic compounds in indoor air. ApeoAb qrans. NNN mAoq NI NNMN–NNNQ. UOV 
QT ChenariI B.I aias CarrilhoI g.I dameiro aa pilvaI M.I OMNS. qowards sustainableI energy-UPM efficient and healthy ventilation strategies in buildings: A review. oenew. pustain. bnergy UPN oev. RVI NQOS–NQQT. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.rser.OMNS.MN.MTQ UPO CincinelliI A.I MartelliniI q.I AmoreI A.I aeiI i.I MarrazzaI d.I CarrettiI b.I BelosiI c.I UPP oavegnaniI c.I ievaI m.I OMNS. Measurement of volatile organic compounds EslCsF in UPQ libraries and archives in clorence EftalyF. pci. qotal bnviron. RTOI PPP–PPV. UPR https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.scitotenv.OMNS.MT.OMN UPS CrosI C.g.I MorrisonI d.C.I piegelI g.A.I CorsiI o.i.I OMNO. iong-term performance of passive UPT materials for removal of ozone from indoor air. fndoor Air OOI QP–RP. UPU https://doi.org/NM.NNNN/j.NSMM-MSSU.OMNN.MMTPQ.x UPV da pilvaI C.c.I ptefanowskiI B.I MaskellI a.I lrmondroydI d.A.I AnsellI M.m.I aengelI A.C.I UQM BallI o.g.I OMNT. fmprovement of indoor air quality by Mac panels containing walnut UQN shells. Build. bnviron. NOPI QOT–QPS. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.buildenv.OMNT.MT.MNR UQO aattaI A.I pureshI o.I duptaI A.I pinghI a.I hulshresthaI m.I OMNT. fndoor air quality of non-UQP residential urban buildings in aelhiI fndia. fnt. g. pustain. Built bnviron. SI QNO–QOM. UQQ https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.ijsbe.OMNT.MT.MMR UQR ae ooblesI a.I hramerI p.t.I OMNT. fmproving fndoor Air nuality through the rse of UQS rltraviolet qechnology in Commercial Buildings. mrocedia bng. NVSI UUU–UVQ. UQT https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.proeng.OMNT.MU.MON UQU aemeestereI h.I aewulfI g.I ae titteI B.I BeeldensI A.I san iangenhoveI e.I OMMU. UQV eeterogeneous photocatalytic removal of toluene from air on building materials enriched URM with qilO. Build. bnviron. QPI QMS–QNQ. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.buildenv.OMMT.MN.MNS URN aodsonI o.b.I ievyI g.f.I ppenglerI g.a.I phineI g.m.I BennettI a.e.I OMMU. fnfluence of URO basementsI garagesI and common hallways on indoor residential volatile organic URP compound concentrations. Atmos. bnviron. QOI NRSV–NRUN. URQ https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.atmosenv.OMMT.NM.MUU URR 
QU auI i.I BattermanI p.I dodwinI C.I ooweI w.I ChinI g.v.I dodwinI C.I ooweI w.I ChinI g.v.I URS OMNR. Air exchange rates and migration of slCs in basements and residences. fndoor Air URT ORI RVU–SMV. https://doi.org/NM.NNNN/ina.NONTU URU bdwardsI o.a.I gurvelinI g.I paarelaI h.I gantunenI M.g.I OMMN. slC concentrations measured URV in personal samples and residential indoorI outdoor and workplace microenvironments in USM bumlifp-eelsinkiI cinland. Atmos. bnviron. PRI QRPN–QRQP. USN https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/pNPRO-OPNMEMNFMMOPM-U USO bstradaI g.M.I hraakmanI N.g.o.B.I MuñozI o.I iebreroI o.I OMNN. A comparative analysis of USP odour treatment technologies in wastewater treatment plants. bnviron. pci. qechnol. QRI USQ NNMM–NNMS. https://doi.org/NM.NMON/esNMPQTUj USR br CouncilI OMMU. ClrNCfi afobCqfsb NVTSiMTSV. USS buropean ComissionI OMMP. fndoor air pollution: new br research reveals higher risks than UST previously thoughtI buropean Comission. USU buropean bnvironment AgencyI OMNT. Air quality in burope — OMNT report. USV https://doi.org/NM.OUMM/URMMNU UTM buropean bnvironment AgencyI OMNP. Air quality in burope—OMNP oeport: bbA report no UTN V/OMNPI buropean rnion. https://doi.org/NM.OUMM/VOUQP UTO buropean bnvironmental AgencyI OMNV. Air quality in burope — OMNV report. UTP https://doi.org/NM.OUMM/UOOPRR UTQ buropean marliamentI OMNM. afobCqfsb OMNM/PN/brI lfficial gournal of the buropean rnion. UTR cengI p.I iiI a.I iowI w.I iiuI w.I whongI w.I euI v.I tangI v.I uingI t.I OMNT. Aia-seeded UTS hydrothermally-grown Ag/wnl nanorod mqcb membrane as efficient indoor air filter. g. UTT Memb. pci. RPNI US–VP. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.memsci.OMNT.MO.MQO UTU dallI b.q.I CorsiI o.i.I piegelI g.A.I OMNN. Barriers and opportunities for passive removal of UTV indoor ozone. Atmos. bnviron. QRI PPPU–PPQN. UUM https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.atmosenv.OMNN.MP.MPO UUN 
QV deissI l.I diannopoulosI d.I qirendiI p.I Barrero-MorenoI g.I iarsenI B.o.I hotziasI a.I OMNN. UUO qhe AfoMbu study - slC measurements in public buildings and schools/kindergartens UUP in eleven buropean cities: ptatistical analysis of the data. Atmos. bnviron. QRI PSTS–PSUQ. UUQ https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.atmosenv.OMNN.MQ.MPT UUR duieysseI B.I eortI C.I mlatelI s.I MunozI o.I lndartsI M.I oevahI p.I OMMU. Biological UUS treatment of indoor air for slC removal: motential and challenges. Biotechnol. Adv. OSI UUT PVU–QNM. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.biotechadv.OMMU.MP.MMR UUU duyotI d.I phermanI M.e.I talkerI f.p.I OMNU. pmart ventilation energy and indoor air quality UUV performance in residential buildings: A review. bnergy Build. NSRI QNS–QPM. UVM https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.enbuild.OMNT.NO.MRN UVN earrimanI i.I ptephensI B.I BrennanI q.I OMNV. New guidance for residential air cleaners. UVO ApeoAb g. SNI NQ–OP. UVP eéquetI s.I oaillardI C.I aebonoI l.I qhévenetI c.I iocogeI N.I ie CoqI i.I OMNU. UVQ mhotocatalytic oxidation of slCs at ppb level using a closed-loop reactor: qhe mixture UVR effect. Appl. Catal. B bnviron. OOSI QTP–QUS. UVS https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.apcatb.OMNT.NO.MQN UVT eortI C.I mlatelI s.I pochardI p.I iuengas MunozI A.q.I lndartsI M.I oeguerI A.I BaronaI A.I UVU bliasI A.I OMNQ. A hybrid biological process of indoor air treatment for toluene removal. g. UVV Air taste Manag. Assoc. SQI NQMP–NQMV. https://doi.org/NM.NMUM/NMVSOOQT.OMNQ.VRUSOO VMM eubbardI e.c.I ColemanI B.h.I parwarI d.I CorsiI o.i.I OMMR. bffects of an ozone-generating VMN air purifier on indoor secondary particles in three residential dwellings. fndoor Air NRI VMO QPO–QQQ. https://doi.org/NM.NNNN/j.NSMM-MSSU.OMMR.MMPUU.x VMP fNpeqI OMNR. duía técnica para la evaluación y prevención de los riesgos relativos a la VMQ utilización de los lugares de tra? bajoI Boletín lficial del bstado. VMR gantunenI M.I lliveiraI b.c.I CarrerI m.I hephalopoulosI p.I OMNN. mromoting actions for healthy VMS indoor air EfAfAnFI buropean Commission airectorate deneral for eealth and VMT 
RM Consumers. iuxembourg. https://doi.org/NM.OTTO/SNPRO VMU gantunenI M.g.I hatsouyanniI h.I hnöppelI e.I huenzliI N.I iebretI b.I MaroniI M.I paarelaI h.I VMV prłmI o.I wmirouI a.I NVVU. Air pollution exposure in buropean cities: qhe ±bumlifp” VNM study. VNN goI t.h.I vangI C.e.I OMMV. dranular-activated carbon adsorption followed by annular-type VNO photocatalytic system for control of indoor aromatic compounds. pep. murif. qechnol. SSI VNP QPU–QQO. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.seppur.OMMV.MO.MNQ VNQ hadribegovicI o.I bkbergI i.I dilliganI A.I phiI B.I OMNN. Air cleaning by photo catalytic VNR oxidation: An experimental performance test. ApeoAb qrans. NNTI QOS–QPP. VNS hennesI C.I seigaI M.C.I OMNP. Air mollution mrevention and Control Air mollution mrevention VNT and Control Bioreactors and Bioenergy. https://doi.org/NM.NMMO/VTUNNNUROPPSM VNU himI h.g.I AhnI e.d.I OMNO. qhe effect of pore structure of zeolite on the adsorption of slCs VNV and their desorption properties by microwave heating. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. VOM NROI TU–UP. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.micromeso.OMNN.NN.MRN VON hotziasI a.I deissI l.I qirendiI p.I gosefaI B.M.I oeinaI s.I dottiI A.I Cimino-oealeI d.I CasatiI VOO B.I MarafanteI b.I parigiannisI a.I OMMV. bxposure to multiple air contaminants in public VOP buildingsI schools and kindergartens-the buropean indoor air monitoring and exposure VOQ assessment EAfoMbuF study. cresenius bnviron. Bull. NUI STM–SUN. VOR hotziasI a.I hoistinenI h.I hephalopoulosI p.I pchlittI C.I CarrerI m.I MaroniI M.I gantunenI VOS M.g.I CochetI C.I hirchnerI p.I iindvallI q.I MclaughlinI g.I MølhaveI i.I de lliveira VOT cernandesI b.I peifertI B.I OMMR. qhe fNabu project. Critical Appraisal of the petting and VOU fmplementation of fndoor bxposure iimits in the br. fspra EftalyF. VOV hraakmanI N.g.o.I oocha-oiosI g.I san ioosdrechtI M.C.M.I OMNN. oeview of mass transfer VPM aspects for biological gas treatment. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. VNI UTP–UUS. VPN https://doi.org/NM.NMMT/sMMORP-MNN-PPSR-R VPO hreutzerI M.q.I hapteijnI c.I MoulijnI g.A.I bbrahimiI p.I hleerebezemI o.I san ioosdrechtI VPP 
RN M.C.M.I OMMRa. Monoliths as biocatalytic reactors: pmart gas-liquid contacting for process VPQ intensification. fnd. bng. Chem. oes. QQI VSQS–VSRO. https://doi.org/NM.NMON/ieMRMOUSm VPR hreutzerI M.q.I hapteijnI c.I MoulijnI g.A.I eeiszwolfI g.g.I OMMRb. Multiphase monolith VPS reactors: Chemical reaction engineering of segmented flow in microchannels. Chem. bng. VPT pci. SMI RUVR–RVNS. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.ces.OMMR.MP.MOO VPU humarI A.I aewulfI g.I san iangenhoveI e.I OMMU. Membrane-based biological waste gas VPV treatment. Chem. bng. g. NPSI UO–VN. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.cej.OMMT.MS.MMS VQM humarI m.I MartaniI C.I MorawskaI i.I NorfordI i.I ChoudharyI o.I BellI M.I ieachI M.I OMNS. VQN fndoor air quality and energy management through real-time sensing in commercial VQO buildings. bnergy Build. NNNI NQR–NRP. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.enbuild.OMNR.NN.MPT VQP iangerI p.I BeköI d.I BloomI b.I tidhedenI A.I bkbergI i.I OMNR. fndoor air quality in passive VQQ and conventional new houses in pweden. Build. bnviron. VPI VO–NMM. VQR https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.buildenv.OMNR.MO.MMQ VQS iebreroI o.I dondimI A.C.I mérezI o.I darcía-bncinaI m.A.I MuñozI o.I OMNQ. Comparative VQT assessment of a biofilterI a biotrickling filter and a hollow fiber membrane bioreactor for VQU odor treatment in wastewater treatment plants. tater oes. QVI PPV–PRM. VQV https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.watres.OMNP.MV.MRR VRM iebreroI o.I oodríguezI b.I darcía-bncinaI m.A.I MuñozI o.I OMNN. A comparative assessment VRN of biofiltration and activated sludge diffusion for odour abatement. g. eazard. Mater. NVMI VRO SOO–SPM. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.jhazmat.OMNN.MP.MVM VRP iebreroI o.I solckaertI a.I mérezI o.I MuñozI o.I san iangenhoveI e.I OMNP. A membrane VRQ bioreactor for the simultaneous treatment of acetoneI tolueneI limonene and hexane at trace VRR level concentrations. tater oes. QTI ONVV–OONO. VRS https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.watres.OMNP.MN.MQN VRT ieungI a.v.C.I OMNR. lutdoor-indoor air pollution in urban environment: Challenges and VRU opportunity. cront. bnviron. pci. OI N–T. https://doi.org/NM.PPUV/fenvs.OMNQ.MMMSV VRV 
RO iiangI v.I tuI v.I punI h.I ChenI n.I phenI c.I whangI g.I vaoI M.I whuI q.I cangI g.I OMNO. VSM oapid inactivation of biological species in the air using atmospheric pressure nonthermal VSN plasma. bnviron. pci. qechnol. QSI PPSM–PPSU. https://doi.org/NM.NMON/esOMPTTMq VSO iiuI v.g.I MuI v.g.I whuI v.d.I aingI e.I Crystal ArensI N.I OMMT. thich ornamental plant VSP species effectively remove benzene from indoor air? Atmos. bnviron. QNI SRM–SRQ. VSQ https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.atmosenv.OMMS.MU.MMN VSR iópez ae ieónI i.o.I aeatonI h.b.I aeshussesI M.A.I OMNV. Miniaturized Biotrickling cilters VSS and Capillary Microbioreactors for mrocess fntensification of slC qreatment with VST fntended Application to fndoor Air. bnviron. pci. qechnol. RPI NRNU–NROS. VSU https://doi.org/NM.NMON/acs.est.UbMROMV VSV iuI N.I meiI g.I whaoI v.I niI o.I iiuI g.I OMNO. merformance of a biological degradation method VTM for indoor formaldehyde removal. Build. bnviron. RTI ORP–ORU. VTN https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.buildenv.OMNO.MR.MMT VTO iuengasI A.I BaronaI A.I eortI C.I dallasteguiI d.I mlatelI s.I bliasI A.I OMNR. A review of VTP indoor air treatment technologies. oev. bnviron. pci. Biotechnol. NQI QVV–ROO. VTQ https://doi.org/NM.NMMT/sNNNRT-MNR-VPSP-V VTR iuengasI A.q.I eortI C.I mlatelI s.I bliasI A.I BaronaI A.I MoynaultI i.I OMNT. oemoval of traces VTS of toluene and p-xylene in indoor air using biofiltration and a hybrid system Ebiofiltration VTT H adsorptionF. bnviron. pci. mollut. oes. OQI NMSTQ–NMSUQ. VTU https://doi.org/NM.NMMT/sNNPRS-MNT-USUV-y VTV MandinI C.I qrantallidiI M.I CattaneoI A.I CanhaI N.I MihuczI s.d.I pzigetiI q.I MabiliaI o.I VUM merrecaI b.I ppinazzèI A.I cossatiI p.I ae hluizenaarI v.I CornelissenI b.I pakellarisI f.I VUN paragaI a.I eänninenI l.I ae lliveira cernandesI b.I senturaI d.I tolkoffI m.I CarrerI m.I VUO BartzisI g.I OMNT. Assessment of indoor air quality in office buildings across burope – qhe VUP lccfCAfo study. pci. qotal bnviron. RTVI NSV–NTU. VUQ https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.scitotenv.OMNS.NM.OPU VUR 
RP Marć, M., ŚmiełowsNa, M., NamieśniN, -., Zabiegała, B., 2018. Indoor air quality of everyday VUS use spaces dedicated to specific purposes—a review. bnviron. pci. mollut. oes. ORI OMSR–VUT OMUO. https://doi.org/NM.NMMT/sNNPRS-MNT-MUPV-U VUU MendozaI g.i.I dranadosI M.o.I de dodosI f.I AciénI c.d.I MolinaI b.I eeavenI p.I BanksI C.g.I VUV OMNP. lxygen transfer and evolution in microalgal culture in open raceways. Bioresour. VVM qechnol. NPTI NUU–NVR. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.biortech.OMNP.MP.NOT VVN MoI g.I whangI v.I uuI n.I iamsonI g.g.I whaoI o.I OMMV. mhotocatalytic purification of volatile VVO organic compounds in indoor air: A literature review. Atmos. bnviron. QPI OOOV–OOQS. VVP https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.atmosenv.OMMV.MN.MPQ VVQ MoyaI q.A.I van den aobbelsteenI A.I ltteléI M.I BluyssenI m.M.I OMNV. A review of green VVR systems within the indoor environment. fndoor Built bnviron. OUI OVU–PMV. VVS https://doi.org/NM.NNTT/NQOMPOSuNUTUPMQO VVT MuñozI o.I aaugulisI A.g.I eernłndezI M.I nuijanoI d.I OMNO. oecent advances in two-phase VVU partitioning bioreactors for the treatment of volatile organic compounds. Biotechnol. Adv. VVV PMI NTMT–NTOM. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.biotechadv.OMNO.MU.MMV NMMM NiederwieserI q.I OMNR. bvaluation of a flow-through test bed for algal atmosphere NMMN revitalization in spaceflight applications. Aerosp. bng. pci. drad. qheses aiss. NPV. NMMO lhI d.p.I gungI d.g.I peoI M.e.I fmI v. BinI OMNN. bxperimental study on variations of ClO NMMP concentration in the presence of indoor plants and respiration of experimental animals. NMMQ eortic. bnviron. Biotechnol. ROI PON–POV. https://doi.org/NM.NMMT/sNPRUM-MNN-MNSV-S NMMR macheco-qorgalI c.I iabrinchaI g.A.I aiamantiI M. s.I vuI C.m.I ieeI e.h.I OMNR. NMMS Biotechnologies and biomimetics for civil engineeringI Biotechnologies and Biomimetics NMMT for Civil bngineering. https://doi.org/NM.NMMT/VTU-P-PNV-MVOUT-Q NMMU mokhrelI A.h.I BatesI M.N.I AcharyaI g.I salentiner-branthI m.I ChandyoI o.h.I phresthaI m.p.I NMMV oautI A.h.I pmithI h.o.I OMNR. mM O.R in household kitchens of BhaktapurI NepalI using NMNM four different cooking fuels. Atmos. bnviron. NNPI NRV–NSU. NMNN 
RQ https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.atmosenv.OMNR.MQ.MSM NMNO molidoriI A.I cineI m.M.I thiteI s.I hwonI m.p.I OMNP. milot study of high-performance air NMNP filtration for classroom applications. fndoor Air OPI NUR–NVR. NMNQ https://doi.org/NM.NNNN/ina.NOMNP NMNR mrasauskasI q.I MartuzeviciusI a.I halameesI q.I huuskI h.I ieivoI s.I eaverinen-NMNS phaughnessyI r.I OMNS. bffects of bnergy oetrofits on fndoor Air nuality in qhree NMNT Northern buropean Countries. bnergy mrocedia VSI ORP–ORV. NMNU https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.egypro.OMNS.MV.NPQ NMNV oocha-oiosI g.I hraakmanI N.g.o.I hleerebezemI o.I oevahI p.I hreutzerI M.q.I van NMOM ioosdrechtI M.C.M.I OMNP. A capillary bioreactor to increase methane transfer and NMON oxidation through qaylor flow formation and transfer vector addition. Chem. bng. g. ONTI NMOO VN–VU. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.cej.OMNO.NN.MSR NMOP oöschI C.I hohajdaI q.I oöderI p.I von BergenI M.I pchlinkI r.I OMNQ. oelationship between NMOQ sources and patterns of slCs in indoor air. Atmos. mollut. oes. RI NOV–NPT. NMOR https://doi.org/NM.RMVQ/Amo.OMNQ.MNS NMOS oosoI M.I calcomerI a.I AzzanoI A.I BoarettiI C.I aonadiniI o.I iorenzettiI A.I ModestiI M.I NMOT OMNV. aesign and development of nanostructured filter media for slCs abatement in NMOU closed environments. g. bnviron. Chem. bng. TI NMPMQR. NMOV https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.jece.OMNV.NMPMQR NMPM ooyal College of mhysiciansI OMNS. bvery breath we take: the lifelong impact of air pollution. NMPN oeport of a working party. iondon. NMPO patishI r.I MendellI M.g.I phekharI h.I eotchiI q.I pullivanI a.I ptreufertI p.I ciskI t.g.I OMNO. NMPP Concentrations on euman aecision-Making merformance. bnviron. eealth merspect. NOMI NMPQ NSTN–NSTU. https://doi.org/NM.NOUV/ehp.NNMQTUV NMPR paucedo-iuceroI g.l.I oevahI p.I OMNU. Monitoring key organic indoor pollutants and their NMPS elimination in a biotrickling biofilter. bnviron. pci. mollut. oes. ORI VUMS–VUNS. NMPT 
RR https://doi.org/NM.NMMT/sNNPRS-MNU-NOTQ-N NMPU pCeboI OMMT. lpinion on risk assessment on indoor air quality. NMPV pidhuI M.h.I oavindraI h.I MorI p.I gohnI p.I OMNT. eousehold air pollution from various types NMQM of rural kitchens and its exposure assessment. pci. qotal bnviron. RUSI QNV–QOV. NMQN https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.scitotenv.OMNT.MN.MRN NMQO pinghI a.I humarI A.I humarI h.I pinghI B.I MinaI r.I pinghI B.B.I gainI s.h.I OMNS. ptatistical NMQP modeling of lPI NlxI ClI mMO.RI slCs and noise levels in commercial complex and NMQQ associated health risk assessment in an academic institution. pci. qotal bnviron. RTOI RUS–NMQR RVQ. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.scitotenv.OMNS.MU.MUS NMQS poreanuI d.I OMNS. Biotechnologies for improving indoor air qualityI in: ptart-rp Creation: qhe NMQT pmart bco-bfficient Built bnvironment. blsevier itdI pp. PMN–POU. NMQU https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/BVTU-M-MU-NMMRQS-M.MMMNO-N NMQV poreanuI d.I aumontI É.I OMOM. crom Biofiltration to mromising lptions in daseous cluxes NMRM Biotreatment. oecent aevelopmentsI New qrendsI AdvancesI and lpportunities. NMRN https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/cOMNU-M-MPTNO-P NMRO privastavaI f.I pinghI m.h.I duptaI q.I pankararamakrishnanI N.I OMNV. mreparation of NMRP mesoporous carbon composites and its highly enhanced removal capacity of toxic NMRQ pollutants from air. g. bnviron. Chem. bng. TI NMPOTN. NMRR https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.jece.OMNV.NMPOTN NMRS ptuderI M.I von oohrI o.I OMMU. Novel Membrane Bioreactor: Able to Cope tith cluctuating NMRT ioadsI moorly tater poluble slCsI and Biomass Accumulation. Biotechnol. Bioeng. VVI NMRU PU–QU. https://doi.org/NM.NMMO/bit.ONRPO NMRV pungI g.e.I himI M.I himI v.g.I eanI B.I eongI h.g.I himI e.g.I OMNV. rltrafine particle NMSM cleaning performance of an ion spray electrostatic air cleaner emitting zero ozone with NMSN diffusion charging by carbon fiber. Build. bnviron. NSSI NMSQOO. NMSO https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.buildenv.OMNV.NMSQOO NMSP 
RS qangI u.I teiI g.I hongI w.I whangI e.I qianI g.I OMOM. fntroduction of amino and rdl into mm NMSQ nonwoven surface for removal of gaseous aromatic pollutants and particulate matter from NMSR air. Appl. purf. pci. RNNI NQRSPN. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.apsusc.OMOM.NQRSPN NMSS qorpyI c.I ClementsI N.I mollingerI M.I aengelI A.I MulvihillI f.I eeI C.I frgaI m.I OMNU. qesting NMST the single-pass slC removal efficiency of an active green wall using methyl ethyl ketone NMSU EMbhF. Air nual. Atmos. eeal. NNI NSP–NTM. https://doi.org/NM.NMMT/sNNUSV-MNT-MRNU-Q NMSV qorpyI c.o.I frgaI m.g.I BurchettI M.a.I OMNQ. mrofiling indoor plants for the amelioration of NMTM high ClO concentrations. rrban cor. rrban dreen. NPI OOT–OPP. NMTN https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.ufug.OMNP.NO.MMQ NMTO qranI q.s.I aangI N.q.I ChungI t.v.I OMNT. Battery-free smart-sensor system for real-time NMTP indoor air quality monitoring. pensors ActuatorsI B Chem. OQUI VPM–VPV. NMTQ https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.snb.OMNT.MN.NVU NMTR US Environmental Protection Agency, 1995. The Inside Story : A Guide to Indoor Air Quality. NMTS bmA aoc. # QMO-h-VP-MMT. NMTT san aurmeI g.I aewulfI g.I aemeestereI h.I ieysI C.I san iangenhoveI e.I OMMV. most-plasma NMTU catalytic technology for the removal of toluene from indoor air: bffect of humidity. Appl. NMTV Catal. B bnviron. UTI TU–UP. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.apcatb.OMMU.MU.MNR NMUM san droenestijnI g.t.I hraakmanI N.g.o.I OMMR. oecent developments in biological waste gas NMUN purification in burope. Chem. bng. g. NNPI UR–VN. NMUO https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.cej.OMMR.MP.MMT NMUP sasileI s.I metranI e.I aimaI A.I metcuI C.I OMNS. fndoor Air nuality - A hey blement of the NMUQ bnergy merformance of the Buildings. bnergy mrocedia VSI OTT–OUQ. NMUR https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.egypro.OMNS.MV.NRM NMUS sermaI s.h.I pubbiahI p.I hotaI p.e.I OMNV. pericin-coated polyester based air-filter for NMUT removal of particulate matter and volatile organic compounds EBqbuF from indoor air. NMUU Chemosphere OPTI NOQQSO. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.chemosphere.OMNV.NOQQSO NMUV 
RT tangI N.I oazaI A.I piI v.I vuI g.I punI d.I aingI B.I OMNP. qortuously structured polyvinyl NMVM chloride/polyurethane fibrous membranes for high-efficiency fine particulate filtration. g. NMVN Colloid fnterface pci. PVUI OQM–OQS. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.jcis.OMNP.MO.MNV NMVO tangI w.I meiI g.I whangI g.p.I OMNQ. bxperimental investigation of the formaldehyde removal NMVP mechanisms in a dynamic botanical filtration system for indoor air purification. g. eazard. NMVQ Mater. OUMI OPR–OQP. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.jhazmat.OMNQ.MT.MRV NMVR teiI t.I oamalhoI l.I MandinI C.I OMNR. fndoor air quality requirements in green building NMVS certifications. Build. bnviron. VOI NM–NV. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.buildenv.OMNR.MP.MPR NMVT tel oegional lffice for buropeI OMNR. bconomic cost of the health impact of air pollution in NMVU burope: Clean airI health and wealth. NMVV tilkinsonI p.I ptollerI m.I oalphI m.I eamdorfI B.I CatanaI i.N.I huzavaI d.p.I OMNT. bxploring NNMM the ceasibility of Algae Building qechnology in Npt. mrocedia bng. NUMI NNON–NNPM. NNMN https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.proeng.OMNT.MQ.OTO NNMO toodI o.A.I BurchettI M.a.I AlquezarI o.I lrwellI o.i.I qarranI g.I qorpyI c.I OMMS. qhe NNMP potted-plant microcosm substantially reduces indoor air slC pollution: f. lffice field-NNMQ study. tater. Air. poil mollut. NTRI NSP–NUM. https://doi.org/NM.NMMT/sNNOTM-MMS-VNOQ-z NNMR torld BankI fnstitute for eealth Metrics and bvaluationI OMNS. qhe Cost of Air mollution: NNMS ptrengthening the bconomic Case for Action. tashingtonI aC. NNMT torld eealth lrganizationI OMNS. Ambient Air mollution: A global assessment of exposure and NNMU burden of disease. NNMV torld eealth lrganizationI OMNQ. Burden of disease from eousehold Air mollution for OMNO. NNNM torld eealth lrganizationI tel oegional lffice for buropeI OMNM. tel guidelines for NNNN indoor air quality: selected pollutants. NNNO uuI g.I pzyszkowiczI M.I govicI B.I CakmakI p.I AustinI C.C.I whuI g.I OMNS. bstimation of NNNP indoor and outdoor ratios of selected volatile organic compounds in Canada. Atmos. NNNQ bnviron. NQNI ROP–RPN. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.atmosenv.OMNS.MT.MPN NNNR 
RU uuI w.I vuI g.I uiaoI t.I OMNP. Microemulsion-assisted preparation of a mesoporous NNNS ferrihydrite/pil O composite for the efficient removal of formaldehyde from air. Chem. - NNNT A bur. g. NVI VRVO–VRVU. https://doi.org/NM.NMMO/chem.OMNPMMQPU NNNU vamamotoI p.p.I iouisI s.o.I piéI A.I pauerbornI o.I OMNQ. Biomass smoke in Burkina caso: NNNV that is the relationship between particulate matterI carbon monoxideI and kitchen NNOM characteristics? bnviron. pci. mollut. oes. ONI ORUN–ORVN. https://doi.org/NM.NMMT/sNNPRS-NNON MNP-OMSO-S NNOO vangI C.q.I ChenI p.q.I aenI t.I tangI v.q.I hristianiI b.I OMNV. fmplementation of an NNOP fntelligent fndoor bnvironmental Monitoring and management system in cloud. cutur. NNOQ dener. Comput. pyst. VSI TPN–TQV. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.future.OMNU.MO.MQN NNOR vangI a.p.I mennisiI p. s.I ponI h.C.I haysI p.g.I OMMV. pcreening indoor plants for volatile NNOS organic pollutant removal efficiency. eortpcience QQI NPTT–NPUN. NNOT https://doi.org/NM.ONOTP/hortsci.QQ.R.NPTT NNOU vipI c.I ChristensenI B.I pircarI h.I NaeherI i.I BruceI N.I menniseI a.I iozierI M.I milishviliI NNOV q.I ioo carrarI g.I ptanistreetI a.I NyagolI o.I MuokiI g.I de BeerI i.I pageI M.I hapilI s.I NNPM OMNT. Assessment of traditional and improved stove use on household air pollution and NNPN personal exposures in rural western henya. bnviron. fnt. VVI NUR–NVN. NNPO https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.envint.OMNS.NN.MNR NNPP wadiI q.I AziziI M.I NasrallahI N.I BouzazaI A.I MaachiI o.I tolbertI a.I otimiI p.I AssadiI NNPQ A.A.I OMOM. fndoor air treatment of refrigerated food chambers with synergetic association NNPR between cold plasma and photocatalysis: mrocess performance and photocatalytic NNPS poisoning. Chem. bng. g. PUOI NOOVRN. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.cej.OMNV.NOOVRN NNPT wengI v.I uieI o.I CaoI g.I ChenI w.I canI n.I iiuI B.I iianI u.I euangI e.I OMOM. pimultaneous NNPU removal of multiple indoor-air pollutants using a combined process of electrostatic NNPV precipitation and catalytic decomposition. Chem. bng. g. PUUI NOQONV. NNQM https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.cej.OMOM.NOQONV NNQN 
RV whangI g.I euI v.I ninI g.I vangI w.I cuI M.I OMOM. qilO-ril-SS-NeO nanocomposites as NNQO efficient photocatalysts for the oxidation of slCs. Chem. bng. g. PURI NOPUNQ. NNQP https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.cej.OMNV.NOPUNQ NNQQ whongI i.I puI c.C.I BattermanI p.I OMNT. solatile organic compounds EslCsF in conventional NNQR and high performance school buildings in the r.p. fnt. g. bnviron. oes. mublic eealth NQI NNQS NMM. https://doi.org/NM.PPVM/ijerphNQMNMNMM NNQT whouI C.I whanI v.I ChenI p.I uiaI M.I oondaI C.I punI M.I ChenI e.I phenI u.I OMNT. Combined NNQU effects of temperature and humidity on indoor VOCs pollution : Intercity comparison. NNQV Build. bnviron. NONI OS–PQ. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.buildenv.OMNT.MQ.MNP NNRM whuI n.I qangI u.I cengI p.I whongI w.I vaoI g.I vaoI w.I OMNV. wfc-U@pilO composite NNRN nanofiber membrane with bioinspired spider web-like structure for efficient air pollution NNRO control. g. Memb. pci. RUNI ORO–OSN. https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.memsci.OMNV.MP.MTR NNRP wielinskaI B.I cujitaI b.I lllisonI t.I CampbellI a.I pagebielI g.I MerrittI m.I pmithI i.I OMNO. NNRQ oelationships of attached garage and home exposures to fuel type and emission levels of NNRR garage sources. Air nual. Atmos. eeal. RI UV–NMM. https://doi.org/NM.NMMT/sNNUSV-MNM-NNRS MNON-Q NNRT wuraimiI M.p.I MageeI o.g.I tonI a.v.I NongI d.I ArsenaultI C.a.I vangI t.I poI p.I NilssonI NNRU d.I AbebeI i.I AllistonI C.I OMNU. merformance of sorption- and photocatalytic oxidation-NNRV based indoor passive panel technologies. Build. bnviron. NPRI UR–VP. NNSM https://doi.org/NM.NMNS/j.buildenv.OMNU.MP.MMQ NNSN NNSO NNSP NNSQ 
N A pqAqb-lc-qeb-Aoq obsfbt lN fNallo Afo mliirqflN ANa qeb N mlqbNqfAi lc BflqbCeNlildfbp clo fNallo Afo mrofcfCAqflN O gavier donzłlez-MartínaIbI Norbertus hraakmanbIcI Cristina mérezbI oaquel iebreroaIbI oaúl P MuñozaIbG. Q a aepartment of Chemical bngineering and bnvironmental qechnologyI rniversity of R salladolidI ar. Mergelina s/n.I salladolid QTMNNI ppain S b fnstitute of pustainable mrocessesI rniversity of salladolidI ar. Mergelina s/n.I salladolid T QTMNNI ppain U c gacobs bngineeringI BristolI rnited hingdom V G-Author for correspondence. b-mail address: mutora@iq.uva.es . cull postal address: NM aepartment of Chemical bngineering and bnvironmental qechnologyI rniversity of NN salladolidI ar. Mergelina s/n.I salladolid QTMNNI ppain. mhone number: HPQ VUPNUSQOQ NO Author’s email addresses: javier.gonzalezm@uva.es; Bart.hraakman@jacobs.com ; NP cris.perez.lopezQQ.cpr@gmail.com; raquel.lebrero@iq.uva.es; mutora@iq.uva.es . NQ NR Abstract NS fndoor air pollution has traditionally received less attention than outdoors pollution despite NT indoors pollutant levels are typically twice higherI and people spend UM-VM B of their life in NU increasing air-tight buildings. More than R million people die every year prematurely from NV illnesses attributable to poor indoor air qualityI which also causes multi-millionaire losses due OM to reduced employee’s productivityI material damages and increased health system expenses. ON fndoor air pollutants include particulate matterI biological pollutants and over QMM different OO chemical organic and inorganic compoundsI whose concentrations are governed by several OP outdoor and indoor factors. mrevention of pollutant is not always technically feasibleI so the OQ implementation of cost-effective active abatement units is required. rp to date no single OR physical-chemical technology is capable of coping with all indoor air pollutants in a cost-OS © 2021 Elsevier. This manuscript version is made available under the CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0